the gazette. 

12 

message the position of all the 'Europeans was most cri- 
tical, as it would inevitably create a great outburst of 
Mahomedan feeling, and that Mr. Reddie and myself 
must at once return to Kampala. Captain Macdonald also 
wrote that he meant to take advantage of the afternoon 
parade on the day following to secure the fort by Euro- 
peans and Swahilis, and then call upon all loyal Souda- 
nese to move over into the old Zanzibari camp. lie then 
intended to instruct Mhogo to inform the Mahomcdans 
at Niitete, that if they desired peace .luma and the Mu- 
iasi, with two ot hers, must be in his hands before night, 
Mid that incascofa refusal the Protestant VVagandawould 
attack them the next day before any Soudanese could ar- 
rive to rein force them from Port Alice. He added, “ I hope 
these rapid and decided measures will save as. but, as 
you can see, the position is most critical.” Immed- 
ately after reading this letter I realized our position. 
Tlic letter should have arrived on the evening of the 
36th. It was now noon of the 17th. Captain Macd- 
onald would make his first move in the game that 
afternoon, doubtless supposing Mr. Reddie and myself 
to have left Port Alice that morning according to 
his instructions. The march occupied between seven 
and eight hours, and wo had, moreover, a number of 
sick on our hands. We could not possibly arrive un 
til late that night, and in the meantime we should be in 
complete ignorance as to what had taken place at Kam- 
pala. Things looked ugly as we were surrounded by 
some 200 armed Soudanese, and at any moment fresh 
news might arrive which would turn the tables against us. 
At 3 p.m. we were ready. Before starting Mr. Reddie 
went to Selim Bey and told him that Captain Macdonald’s 
orders were that he and his men were t« remain quietly 
at Port Alice to guard the station, as he had no intention 
of calling on them to fight against the Mahorncdnns.— 
Th» Time*. 

(To bo Continued.') 

Sft vilfl Stem'll HVi *tt»l Saw- 
rt “ ■'Hrt'Hl ^UHl ” ’llcU'U ’“lUi Stini 
i'titlSl SW-l &}’• ^ 'PHrl SyWl 
illgiawi *1141 SlWl 
rtt<H «« 6 UIJll=H4 
(Sdi ; til a 
ISM “ ‘HM'iSi SlSl 
mww) i suii-ft'iwa '5s 
^4 
i=ui5' t4a'- ^ '1WI 

'(Si Si5 ’HWUJf 

y US rt'li JUii (S'iWHl'li 
^ur}' 6si', i J? “i^ii 
^ uict 'S'^i 5ufl 5. ''V.v.i'? 
SlUSASP'il <l*H rilS rlHUJUi 
JjSm JiHS Ups'll HyHilHi rtUUl'fl 
um'Wl 5U63i5lwi*(l si-yw 
usl Sis UlKl Wlfl 0/rfl 5HU rt'tBWl 
ctUl iT5i«l rU ^iuUlU “ %Cl ” 
631, '( * •nil tHeiui 'ututl « 
'CHcWl tTllSJ lied, rtUl UW cU'Sl JJVfl 
iJ'li"' 'HM'i ri'iljtui ?114 fttil. 
rl yu'-rft fi't^ui ypflyusfiHi 
WUlKl Mil <««, =H'(l Uictt 
5HI jRuwi Slj'fl MlUsfl a'il'flB, iJi-i 
(3US*ft sUMUKi WW SliJu HIM' 
RMHia a.—aUi[rtH. 

A STRANGE CASE OF V1SSICITUDES 

OF FORTDNE. 

(mis) 

Ansi'll iR'H3Wi 4lS^{l3\l =“13 viRli MUl 
SIM3 HtU SRiAlH'tWl SPH3 <HR3l&, ^ 4l3-?H- 
3? n-AW Sfl^A 3RUUHUIH ijfil, 
rtui waw SKI 3w--<d%a Hiak Rii <ma 
HiHli S!«il 6cil, ri ■'HAMAH M'MclRi 5RI 5,4 M«- 
Mlo faSl’Kl Kfi MMMWl 5iqi 1W IR^IOHI 
Udl, S tiKl 4ll3l.tf.C-l? CPHC-iKl ^Ha'4 M'«? Sl^lAl 
=HAl/l ijctl, H?gH AiS 4?m» HSiAqWJ 
HA« ctHl 'iflM MUtf AiiWl q5l HAuiUl " •'HrtCil 
tUHl” 5,w AilcUKl ijRui? -Sl'sft avPi UMAM? 
shim"! 4ie.tfc-i? Rcii'AfMl mawiji sfl riKl hmI3'4 
4AIK1 feed. =hSI SHiS* ?US MAUKl Mid sflR «d*l 
3 .'Ml? ^AWJS 4lMAiE> ■“IAAIS35 41MAIWK1 
AUM, “ TAM Ales’ <HIA4(lMl3l,” 'MSAUes 'id AIS 
=H^i MM^lsAW MlflUl, 5l yiwt ^idMlRldl MjMlKl^l 
■ASiT/aia MMd ijcii mR 5i e;;, sidMid aia41a 
SA“UAMi Mia SM SRl "id MM ijHi. 

Ali ■MAAISJ5 4lMAlW'd ^ICAd vlld iStfl, rlM 
MMIA =-Hd AU4A1 MW 5liJl iSril, mMIA ^ 
'■Mid AUH mMI? MC-UMmR dMUldl 
’lldldi a MiiiSu i4di. uiAcfldi Alld mRiKI sflMd 
^MUldl TAMldl Mid riMBldl iA'tf Mll^4S3 C-fl-dW 
uidlfflSH c-tm 3*li\:?-Hl AHIMl ijrfl, add cHlAMld 
M»(l a-UrA uMlAl MAM SIM? Ali SliJAlMS’ S5J5<HllJ5i 
5laA Pi34d Ml? CAM 3'Mlii Hae da lid dMl 
anil? Htf MHR d'dd a'lilMS, SUMldd 4M?Mlii- 
di dM'JlKl 5lld tfC-liddia 5i4 5iia TAtfd dM^ 
Ml?tf MMlMrtd H?M 1dlci =dia lid, =dd SU 3I’d 
^’flMld adid AOdlMd dl 4^3Mlil Mlddi =dld?l- 
5ilS:?lH M»MlS SlMial dlica, 5 S 'd'Hl°Mld adl^A 
=d=a yd niJS. =i3iidlKl iild Mi.A ('d3il*0Ai S'1 
sRaU idd {J^lMUdldi <(4SIW diS Idi^c-Tl 5l 
MHM? (JMCtlSli a, rt (H'UlMdl? 5,431 ?IS **d?Al£- 
J5 41MAIS> t4dl Sid i^Ml-di M,3 B, Ml?l Sl3l<dl 
iVn ?Adi BUiiMl AR4ia 5l sin ut7d°$i' B, rtdi 
5i Alt *llAl MiadSlA (Jdl. slAdidl ‘'4UHI" dl 
>il(5,3l TAHi oldlSSMmi All^^ldi Hlull'd?! <§SHil 
lirli, d SdlS Ali4il aic-ft Sa 3lS\B Ml?l 
SlMdE) 5)tn ^?inc5 SiMAl35dl MTdddi li? >Hl5.l?Hi 
a.4dl liril, ^Id “1dd3l MlHldi ” Td'fc »> a[l? 
MlMdl Ma>dd MC-tldi 5lTA?Ui B dMUta UHUd 
s?d mi?ai 5t -nujeuni ?iii =dlM<fl a'5i4 M’dd 
MMliilM J^IM Mdl iScil. flMMdl Jili43IHiKl ?A?M- 

asuct (sV-aO 
^■"i^Ki dlo Add Mia K**. 

Mil adJMlilHwi <HlMdi HOll MiBl HAlAl uRlB. 
MM I AiKImR Ado t)?lf= dl IHIM*{1 <dnlA >HH HM 
6a', KMl?MB aiMMl< MSI Min' MUM Rl3l<U 6dl 
Mei <d«d?Kl 63d Heft e id 1^13 _6cfl tv Hi 2 dMAl 
AjVft SiTA mumKI ad lAIM lAl >HMA Mltf ?6^' M^ 
3’diet Hl^l 4d<d 6di, Mi^i AS4?3l? dl J13KI «d 
AftMlM MlMSlKl §'il5ll H’dMld Ril’d dl Mid 6cfl 
Add Al63l?dl SHAdi td»d< RilR Hld4 d il 
Ado ?)Al^ MilMMl 3"fl 6cft. =dTA ddR Al.?sR 
413A13 tfCll M) Cil’ddl dl?Kl MIA^R Ado t)?l3= dl 
Mill MMMldi AIMIMI? M«1MI 6dl R AUH RiAlMlAA 
tfCdKl Hlift did 6cft TA’fl Ali«A Midi Ado t)?l dl 
MUM hRi 6^1, Mi MUM Mel 3M131 Hell 6dl MtJl 
3’dMlC-d Hed 4M 6a. Mil./ A'lS' Mei <d«d? HIM' 
d?d SlHCy' 6a =dd MUMMl o)'- dl HAlll HUS' 
Ado ?)?)p a ?)?)pll dl MUM Ml<d*il 6cil. RlS 
SICl M3lddi 4l§(tf3 Odell dlHfift A4Mdl Ado t)?l^U 
Ml MHlMldi AlMRl? M3MIB. MU!fl MMiadi UioU 
HMlAlA MICt ?6Rl 6cii Mid Sd Al?4lAiJHl^, MilMlil 
4lSdAft3 Odell C-UMMia' Mia AlR arm rtMTA RsAl- 
Rl?i oflc-tdl 3’diei Tdod dlil Hia dl iMiaRlMi 
M^ MMi?li |3lMldl HlAdl AlRMldi mu^S 
oll^dlA. 

IHSXl^lrll H'-it =HR CU«l 

aH^i^rii AFHIRIS. 
a’ouSa dlo ?<:tfl TddMl^l t<r*F. 

OlMAitHdl MlS MAMdl dlAMl wlill°Hl ilMli^ 3.d 
oiffdA 4?3,' d MAiiei loooo AUAiildi, ^?ai “isd^ 
^M ARlMdld “lTd? Aldldi M’-iiei looo °UAl- 
ildi =dlHld ??oo= MiAUia, dSHl? Ml3dl MUM 
MAI? =?^l< VI dl illilMdi MlAl cddMl^ldl MUM Ml 
=dldl MHld V)s2 dl dHl 'H T^dKl il(3M4idl MUM 
MW Ml A-’Udl M'dld Viol dl ?6^l 6dl. MldMAiAd 
41M4 AJdAij' oud? 6?}'. 
(3M?i}3 ’dirt AdiMlilUidi 3dl MHiei i4?ooo 
MRtildi HMi 6di 5}?a.di r’l5MlGHidi MHiei ?ooo 
MlAiildi UHi 6Ui- 
3'4ddl MlS MAMdl MIAMI wejloMl llMIBi SldAia- 
dl MUM o[ ufld 4VIU dl, Mlildl MUM o)^. ufld 

m)c (5i\5cttc 

♦ 

FOR ZA/>OZTI;aVR A.^R EA.ST A.FRICA.. 

7th MARCH 1894. 

Her Majesty has been graciously pleased to con- 
fer aiCompanionship of the Most Distinguished Order 
of St. Michael and St. George on Mr. Rennell 
Rodd in recognition of his services whilst Acting 
Agent and Consul-General in Zanzibar during the 
absence of the late Sir Gerald Portal. 

3rd March 1894. 
The object of Mr. Gladstone’s visit to Windsor 
was to explain to Her Majesty his motives for 
resigning the Premiership. 
The Queen accepted his resignation and has sum- 
moned Lord Rosebery. 

3th March 1894. 
A large majority of the House of Commons is in 
favour of Lord Rosebery becoming Premier owing 
to his able conduct of Foreign affairs and his care 
for Imperial interests. 
The Anti-Parnellites also support Lord Rosebery 
ImttheParnellites bitterly oppose him and the Lab- 
oucherians are in favour of Sir W. Harcourt. 
It is rumoured that if Lord Rosebery becomes 
Premier he will leave the Foreign Office and that 
either Lord Kimberley or Earl Spencer will replace 
him and that Mr. Morley will take the India Office. 
Mr. Gladstone has a cataract in the eye and an 
operation is inevitable. 
The French chamber has rejected by a majori- 
ty of 284 votes Mr. Bressone’s resolution in favour 
olt an anticlerical policy. The Government advoca- 
ted toleration whilst up holding the rights of the 
state. 
Latek. It is officially announced that Lord 
Rosebery succeeds Mr. Gladstone as Premier. 
The Queen goes to London to-day when Lord 
Rosebery will have an audience. 
A telegram from Bathurst states that Major 
Madden with a West Lidia Column occupied Bus- 
sumbala after a slight resistence. The enemy then 
altaeked the village in force but were repulsed 
with heavy loss. Th** British had nine wounded. 
Gth March 7894. 
Lord Rosebery has submitted his Cabinet list 
to Her Masjesty. 
Lord Rosebery becomes First Lord of the Trea- 
sury and Lord Privy Seal in place #f Mr. Glad- 
stone and Lord President of the Council. 
Lord Kimberley becomes Secretary of State for 
Foreign Affairs in place of Lord Rosebery. 
Mr. J. Morley having declined the post of Prin- 
cipal Secretary of State for India it will probably 
lie offered to Mr. H. Fowler, President of the 
Local Government Board.  *  

3 rt R HI <11 

3did rtl= Aitf ?1d?Ml4l tfiv. 

S^ilS M??fl ’dlrtdl 3’dHiidi 5,3 5Zi;ilMWi 
Sdl’a & S «'Hl% rdM?AA ’dirt 3A4A H6l^HA HIS 

TWO ANNAS 
’dlMr}* 63 tHl, <«?llJd AW3Sil5i rtSiM? !|H5i l 
4?'ll. AlH3|5uSi uplift 5dd AUdH®' idrt3l=^. 
63'. 
SUA^ldHl Ml?, ’,? 5;4<lHi 4?d3 i^/dTlS, m-lJllMj’ 
S SUoi^Miai? S’Wtl 4?Mldl ’d’ftct ftlsl 6rtl 
Sdd S 13.31131 SHHlSlft IrLMl =d^' j,l^l Hrt B. 
AWIMl? Clrt '*fto ’41? Add AISMIJ} 'dlMdl? dHl S,M 
’id ?IH wli!l°Hl Bdi %{l sq^Ml Hit B 5 ‘*{1. 
’«i?Add AlJJdl^ ’-dl’ldl? B. 

’id 4141 'HltflAl’134’,? $lAACl3l?j5u5, (SHCli s?<U 
mAA d'-AHl <®>i*Adl HUSJAUSi “I 4314 34ld 
441 <Hl? 34Alld AUH d5,ld Hiai 6dl°Hl. d'5to dd 
HUSlAl oz’d'Kl HHl B. 

dl° 14ft HIVH 1<34V. 
tfo ’3?Adddl AlOdldiTlAl Sdd^dl UlHl d4Al? 
5,313 B. 3l?A ?'l3'd4l HHld HAl =dd Al? '{K-ft’dd 
6l?^lA Sdld-fl AMUdlMAt HAl 5,1, “ Jsft ” 
•zi^lM B. '?<ls3 »lHld drt n}| B, 3l?A <W- 
<d4ld HHld <ddlMMl 443i4 B *dd 4A3l5i'< 
3HAIM UHld HIH rt <l?i Hi^L Sd B. 
HI. ’Ct?Add dUllAl'Jft^AHH ’id 4141 Mid Hd 6<ft 
5dd rl Mid AlSSdldl HlAi Sill 5ld sd!,Ml B S i 
’id ?l^ 5,1, dHl 5lg,' oziJUHldi ’dl”*}' 6s}’. 
dAl'-ft’dd ?IWH Aldldi AftdlA ’/UAl’H’d cz^iio^' 
S AftAtBCldi SH3 Hldd 4?Mld 5, mmuj 
ddni? 4AMldi ’dl^' 6s}'. ildflddA3 3ild AAft5dl 
?}3 4AAI ctH? H5,l d^lAl ?6Hl ’dd AAftHld AftAft- 
4(l5 id'?A ’HlHMld 4?^ 63’. ?"l?'-ll4\ HlAlKl 
5dHM5,di 4A3ld d4!ft Ha 63' HUl dilift’dd AlA- 
4l< M>?}«}' ’dd rt lilWdl StKl Ml4ft dF»ft. 

dlo ASS dlA*, AtfiV. 

AldMl^ dl6l?l'?ftsS?UH >flo ’3?AdK Mid 441 si 
AKSdia ’HlMMldlAl 6sfl, ’dd 3l?i sl3j<d4ld UHld 
d'A3 rtdHl? 4?Mld 46a' & ’dd “ 3,3 5l3 ^l^A ” 
4§ B. 
5l?AAldl add-Sd'A i^-t Al’dHlKl ?A’dlAd HI’ 
’9?Artd Mi’ll 3d 441 5dd 3d?l;lldl 41dd dl? 
JHi, ’dl’-’ll. 5in-iH'A 4?}41 Al’dMldi 5dl=>Hi B. 

d?dlA Al? 2S313A ’ll?d3'ft ’1? 6l»s4ldi 4ld 
5,313 5,«-.i ’dd 4 Id?,4-1 n'd?3Hl su^Kl 
Hianiidi HI’ ?'d3 ’iSd did?i? di6i?ii3nss5, 
4d3lHlHd 5,1^ HI HlAA dlAlsft’lKlAA 5,1??'5,1^ 
Al-A Hl5,3 «dd Al-A ss5,i?n-dl ’ddl'd d’dA^ll B. 

dl’ 3SS dl?5, t<44F. 

Hlo ’5?Add Kids)? d3Ml ’IHl lidl siHl dd3<d 
5} 4l?lH’4l ?ijs dlH ’ll’, B si dld?t? dl6?ll?ftssd, 
oziillMMld 6a- 
dl6AH5ftss5i AlSJdl5j dVa? ?l'u-a’ » 'dd 4tl?A 

^lo,<d4ld dl3l°Hl B. 

28th February 1894. 
2olll(= dl, A Aildl Al?Sia dlAdl MUM olllp USld 
?oUlo= MlStidl ?6’Ml 6cil- 

«ll?4dl AltS MAMdl dl?Ml TAlJlloUl MMli?) 3dl 
?A(U ?Mooo MlAliia, oAMIa AIM Alic-idl ?A(lS frooo 
MiAiiia 6a, diSui? ?i4iidi mum mm? $?![R <y 
dl, nlM AHidSdl MUM 3 ^l4il^HUd 6.<C4 
dl d'itdl MUM MM? |?^Ia V.i«Ul dl ?6*il 6dl. 

AdSMlRdia 3,a ?AftS AAAOOO MlAlMl hS 

6a.—?lAd Rlidl?. 

NOTICE. 

A meeting of tlie creditors oi'Adamji 
Sulamanji will be held in H. B. M s. 
Consular Court on Friday the 2nd day 
of March 1894, at 10 a. m. 

H. W. de SAUSMAREZ- 
Asst. Judge. 
Consular Court, 

Vol. 3 

-No. 110. 

“€\)t (gazette” 

FOR ZANZIBAR AND EAST AFRICA 

Zanzibar 22nd February 1894. 

Zanzibar, 7th March 1894. 

HEID8IECK’S& Co.’s 

DRY MONOPOLE 

CHAMPAGNE. 

Finest Brand of champagne imported 

into Zanzibar. 

Can be obtained in cases of 1 doz quarts or 

2 doz pints -wholesale from. 

FORWOOD BROS. &Co. 

Zanzibar 

SISdA «?. wHAllAW (1'H'dfli tldlM? 

Afldl) AH'rt? Aiuartl 'H'Odldl dlo A52R adr-tl y 1 
AllS, adb MWl'f AMl’dli Swcd AHMlHrt’flMi Sldl , 

'aflRWl M31M AlHlAdl '/mIsJ ^ HlMl’ll 
fo Mi’ll A}t(l ARd ’MMlAdl A 3011*11 V MPU^-fl 
AAdmi SHIH?!. 

REUTER’S TELEGRAMS. 

London 28th February 1894. 
An Admiralty Official despatch states that the 
enemy attacked the Bluejackets at Bathurst from 
cover whilst they were waiting for their boats. All 
showed the greatest gallantry and coolness. 
Colonel Majendie deposed at the inquest on Bour- 
dinthatin his opinion it was certainly intended to 
attack the Observatory and that the explosion of the 
bomb was premature. 
Although persistent reports are still going about 
that Mr. Gladstone intends to resign an authorita- 
tive statement was made last night to the contrary. 
A large body of Fodisilahs invaded Britisli ter- 
ritory yesterday but were repulsed with a heavy loss 
after two hours fighting by a force consisting of the 
West India regiment and marines. Three of the 
British were wounded. 

1st March 1894' 
Despite the denial authoritative, the papers still 
continue to descuss Mr. Gladstone's probable resig- 
nation. The Daily News designates Lord Rose- 
bery as the future Premier with Sir Win. Hareourt 
as leader of the House of Commons. The Radical 
papers are divided in their opinion some favouring 
Ijord Rosebery others objecting to a Peer being Pre- 
mier. 
Mr. Gladstone had an audience with the Queen 
yesterday and it is generally reported that it was for 
the purpose of resigning but this was denied last 
night. 
A great sensation lias been caused by a statement 
iii the Italian Chamber made by Signor Crispi de- 
claring that the conspiracy to cause a revolution in 
Sicily was hatched in France. The conspirators reli- 
ed on the outbreak of a continental war initiated by 
Russia to whom to it was intended to cede a Sicilian 
Port. The rising was fixed for the middle of Fe- 
bruary but the Italian government having heard of 
it frustrated their plans. 

■ ,4' ' • lit^ <Mm 
iiiHSL ■ tv_~ 
SOLE AGENTS IN ZANZIBAR. 
FOB WOOD BROS. & Go. 

2nd March 1894, 
The Pall Mall Gazette states that the object of 
Mr. Gladstone’s audience of the Queen on Saturday 
was to tender his resignation and that Lord Rose- 
bery will be summoned to form a cabinet. 
Mr. Gladstone moved the adoption of the Lord’s 
amendments under protest and strongly condemned 
the Peers for their action. The amendments were 
adopted. 

o 

mo | 
"HR-sl 5t<r/«l*il blH ^rl 1 
qK m'h y=.Mvu swsi *12 si«» 5-1','lrti ^ 
«l=i UUK Hit y-HMl 
ywtyei d-Suini 5. | 
'-.'■(l 4iRi SwA MWi ^si 
sijn 5 mw Mi'dai^A wnd miAi ad S 5jw aia 
?R MSlMiai m Ul^ti'fl B. ^ ■ 
Si'fl =Jtt'-U B '? 9i=.A S 'mhm dl 
Si^d 5!i?iAdi Si&i Bun e?i ?u 5 ^MiM=vai« 
sanoni-a =M=a ^dy3. 3jum?i 3jm %fl3 ’■hi3.* 

^'-U M3. ^ 

MU 34l«^cMdl S'UMfHi SitdlSil MAl B S'td 

Ml?A5il <13.11 Mlo (H^dydl S-OHRct \n 

SU'-U'Cl ^3= B. 
il^l Sl3lil dlMfl B. (i4 , 
ntC-iMl OT'-U Mlil W^ai «H <1^ Mrt M’ladUd 
■tl 3J(lM'ft 5i3' 3«S1< B. 
yTUMU Art MS3. HHlrtt 3rtl°^ ^B S Ml3 ^au 
^ctrtrtl C-il3.3 ^1^'rtA At’rtlrt MMlrtl B. 
MtliWPjlW Cirtirt Mltl 3JU* n-mi? B 
«iw <i5i<AAai*i Mitt s3.?i. 
ayi^rti Ai^i «£ Aw? AsA Aiii u?irt orwhic-u 
J{14' B. MBl AidJ.SUSi MlHrtl MiA jMSil S?Al Miil 
wf? ^SWrtwA liA'l'ft iliMlHl aU»Mi. '4M1?WI rtM 
wsi WhMI MM l B. 

rtl3 HRitl MW3 3JU<1 B i 

rtlo A A HRM t AiV. 

MMK rt’AMdl yMl^Wl rtR MlliRUStlwA CUW 
^IdSihA5! ^iMl B. 
?(lo s&SiMddl i/3Ml5i tll?A ^liWA !f3.?A CllW j 
aii^ ’A A^A smA Ara AA Ala mmi B jhA mA 
cAra A^H'A Sii4 Ml iiSdAla mui Ara <13)<hA 
AiA mmi B. 
eiRA 'AwaArtl W3MIM3 A 4? A A Silij fti sR 

Jl^rt SrA SflrttH?<l MMl B. 
KlrtAlMa A4?aA SHU ?Aa ^r v^amiAi SuAi ! 
MU Am Ar«C134 mi sya i?Ai miA «lisa mm^mAa- | 
Aruu AMlS'A Mlo Sim. SIM. 4iSa3.A mi^ mr 
SHlMMWi MIMA. j' 

EAST AFRICAN NEWS. 

LOCAL NEWS. 

NRaKe>3!B3S3S«aHHBBa&BBBBBnnBEHBBBaHHBI 
OBITUARY. ( 

Vic have to note with deep regret the 
death of Mr. William T. Harcourt Cham- 
hers of the Universities Mission, Kiunga- 
ni, Zanzibar. 
Mr. Chambers died in the Mission 
Hospital on Sunday the 4th inst. after a 
short attack of fever with other complica- 
tions. The loss of his most valued 
educational work at the Theological College 
and School at Iviungani is most keenly 
felt by the members of the Mission and 
his sudden death will be deeply lamented 
by many friends who knew him in Zanzibar. 
He died, aged 32, and was buried at the > 
Mission Cemetery at Ziwani. 

R. I. P. 

The M. 'd. s.s. “Pei IIo” arrived here on 
the -ind. inst. with European mails up to the 
10th. ulto. 

The 1U l.A.L. s.s. “Kanzlor,,passed through i 
the harbour yesterday on her way to Har-cs- 
Salaam. * I 

THE GAZETTE 

The main roads from the Palace up to the 
Mnazi-moja Harracks were decorated and illu- 
minated on Friday last in honor of the anni- 
versary of the State Entry of H.H. The Sul- 
tana to the Town Palace. A Hand performance 
was given during the evening in the Sultan/s 
Garden on the Mnazi-moja road and also a 
Firework Display, a large number of residents 
(including ladies) being present. 

The news which reached us through Reuter’s 
Agency on the 2nd inst. that Her Majesty 
the Queen haseonfered the honor of a Compa- 
nionship of the most distinguished Order of 
St. Michael and St. George upon Mr Rennell 
Rodd in recognition of his Service whilst Ac- 
ting Agent and Consul General here during 
the absence of the late Sir Gerald Portal 
has been received with sincere pleasure by re- 
sidents of every nationality, whose apprecia- 
tion of Mr. Rennell Rodd’s work in Zanzi- 
bar is too wcllknown to need any further re- 
ference on our part. We therefore join in 
the congratulations due to Mr. Rodd on this 
occasion and trust that this is hut the first of 
many Honours in store for that gentleman, in 
his Diplomatic career. 

We congratulate Mr. E. Giles, Superintend- 
ent of the Eastern Telegraph Company, upon 
the honour which was received by hiin yester- 
day, when His Highness the Sultan conferred 
an Order of the Brilliant Star of Zanzibar 
upon this gentleman. 

Samples of both wheat and barley grown on 
the Kikuyu plateau in British East Africa 
have reached London and in Mark-line 
thevery highest opinion is expressed of the 
quality of both samples. This is especially the 
case with reference to the barley, which has 
been declared to be as fine a sample as has 
ever been shown in the market. The Kikuyu 
plateau is, on an average, from 5,000 ft. to 
7000 ft. above sea level, and is one of the re- 
gions which Captain Lugard refers to as a pro- 
bable field for European occupation, although 
situtod within the tropics. As compared with 
Kyassaland it has several advantages as a 
graiuproducing region, not the least of which 
is that while the part of the Lake Nyassa region 
most readily available for cultivation—the 
Shire highlands—is a succession of hills and 
valleys, on the Kikuyu plateau there is a 
stretch of country 400 miles long which is 
nowhere below 5,000 ft. above sea-level. Of 
course, nothing can be done to develop this 
great grain-growing region until cheaper 
modes of transport are introduced, and the 
advocates of a railway from Mombasa to the 
Victoria Xvanza are especially pleased at the 
result of the experiment of growing wheat 
and hurley in a district through wnich the 
projected line would pass. It is possible that 
samples of this wheat and barley may be on 
view at the meeting of the Royal Geographi- 
cal Society next Monday evening, when Dr. 
Gregory, of the British Museum, is to read a 
paper on his ascent of Mount Kenia and his 
journey in East Africa.—Cift/ Leader. 

7tli Marcli 1894 
A Reuter’s telegram from Cape Town, dated 
Jan. 22. says:—“On Monday, in the presence 
of a brilliant gathering at Admiralty House, 
Simonstown, Lady Loch presented to Lieut. 
P. V. Lewes, of her Majesty’s ship Blanche, 
the Distinguished Service Order, conferred 
upon him by the Queen for his services on 
the Juba river in rescuing last August some 
Englishmen, officials of the British East 
Africa Company, who were being besieged by 
mutinous Somalis.” 

On the Sunday before the mail left, the 
Italeiytis cutter met with an accident whilst 
sailing off the shore in a hard gale. When 
between the Blanche and her own ship she 
capsized in a squall. The Blanche instantly 
manned boats, which, with those of the 
Raleigh, besides the steam launch of the Pc- 
ndope, were soon on the spot, a slight delay 
being caused by all the boats being at the 
davits, on account of the wind. The Blanche!* 
boats were first in the water, and her cutter, 
under command of Lieutenant Lewes, was 
first to reach the spot. Her gig could not face 
the weather, and her people were considered 
fortunate to get hack to their ship without 
themselves requiring assistance. The cutter’s 
crew worked bravely against wind and waves, 
and bad taken several men on board when 
another swimmer was found to be sinking. In 
spite of tremendous efforts at the oars, the 
boat seemed to get no nearer, and it seemed 
as if the man must he lost, as he began now 
to go under; but after a supreme effort on 
the part of the boat’s crew they brought her 
near enough to be able to reach the drowning 
man with a boathook, which he managed to 
hang on to until hauled into the boat. Lieu- 
tenant Hutchinson (Blanche) and some blue- 
jackets went to the rescue of the Raleigh’s 
other cutter, which by this time had drif- 
ted so near the beach as to he herself in dan- 
ger. The pinnace was in time, and towed 
her to the flagship, and the swamped boat 
soon drifted ashore. 

Referring to our recent extracts from “The 
Times of Ceylon'’ re the barque “Grosvcnor” 
sentences have been pronounced in the vari- 
ous cases: the several members of the crew 
charged with refusal to obey the captain’s or- 
ders have been sentenced to terms ranging 
from 2 to 6 weeks each (notice of appeal be- 
ing given), and in the case of assault a sen- 
tence of 6 months’ rigorous imprisonment 
was imposed. 

PI. M. S. “Philomel” left on Saturday last 

for Kismayu and Lainu. 

IL 31. S. “Thrush” is at Pemba. 
H. M. S. “Sparrow” in harbour. 

EXCHANGE RATE. 

Chartered Dank of India, Australia and China 
Demand on London:— Its. 17-o per b 
National Bank of India, lid., do. 17-1- „ 

7fh March 1894. 
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 
■Week ending Monday 5th March 1894. 

Temperatures 

Barometer. max. min. min. 
Dee. 8 a.m. S a.m. 24 hrs. 24 hrs. inches. 
Tuesday. Feb. 27 30.023 81.8 8G.2 79.1 0.20 
0.00 
Wednesday. 28 30.019 81.2 84.2 
0.43 
30.000 79.1 83.0 
Thursday. Mar. 1 
0.28 
30.025 79.8 80.7 
Friday. - 
0.28 
30.047 80.1 82.1 
Saturday. 3 
1.93 
30.075 79.1 80.1 
Sunday. 4 
0.00 
30.037 79.0 80.0 
Monday. 5 
Weekly ( 
30.032 80.0 83.2 77.3   
means 1 
Total for ) ,, (, 
the week ) 
Total Rainfall to 28th Feb. 7.48 Inches. 

79.4 
74.5 
77.9 
77.5 
70.0 
70.4 

B.R. O’SULLIVAN 

HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 

Morning Afternoon 

Date 
March. 

h. m. h. m. 
f 56 0 11 
0 25 5 69 
5 55 6 12 
6 29 6 45 
7 1 7 16 
7 35 7 55 
8 17 8 40 
A. Lk. P. AGNEW, R.N.R. 

Port Officer. 

aiRCHlctidl 

THE GAZETTE. 

'UHSR >U6Rli3jk2dl 
“sftsnMa” ifiiwia 3Jirt c-tiy w-mi 

MtS1 B. 

“ MV.L ” rt?$ B. 
“ ” iMRLHi B. 

i|'il<UMl5l. 

mi 

rtW ijSrtMl MSilrt-fl | MRi^SfiMt^iniMl 
MlS'i l rtl 3.o liSM | Sil$i4(lMlSKS MIMrtl. 
j rt?lrt<rti>l's5U^filMl 
■MlS'i l rtl 3o lisV 
I c-ftMlBi. 

«t»:fcUS. 
rtlo 15(1 $«R=ltfl <1 (43) . 
dlo 3t"*ft •rtrt'tllQ gift (4V) . 
rtlo ?isRl $UR=lia *ft ... . 
rtlo HR3-) gift ... . 

iT3! lfti.il. 
■5? t? 

HRH. 

rttfW 
c 
t 
to 
It 
It 
13 
tv 

ttrtRrtl 
i. Ml. 
9S 
?H 
MH 
?t 
t 
3H 
liS 

ttlo/dl 
4. Ml. 
tt 
3t 
t? 
VH 
HU 
Vo 

5l. §. '41. SDinJi. »iR. Sin. »hr. 

^l3.A SUSfttR. 

ti'rtd ttuo rtl MlstHlrta. 
tlrt I3tl 

iHlSS HIH ^irt?Hlfl-HRM. 
ffi'S „ Hlli-?RH4l. 
HrMI Hlli tui. tl. IS Ml. i. 

4c''U Ma *i<iH wti. 
i-HlJl RlHtlffi. 
J HHHRl.—5V?Hrt 

[SHIHtl. i 
Ma ^liuffi 

(6'S-?Rim Hiy. 
uis ?ld. 
Ml^MSrt-'Hs-lrt HIW Mil. 
«rtHi ” ii3'iHrti Ma aio 3rtirtti. 
cr-O.Hrt Ma a’clU Wtl. [vMl Mil. 
HltMl-tlSrttllffi H16 >sMl; 4. Hlli 
(lig-iRlHrtl zyj. B. “ ffrtHl ” Mert 
H!0 Wtl. 
fe's-lRllrtl ?'H aulrtl fsay. 

shes of Freefolk and Laverstoke, united for ecclesi- 
astical purposes, have had another place of worship, 
and a new church is now being built. Thus the 
old edifice has become practically a private chapel, 
surrounded however by a small public burying-ground. 
It is charmingly situated within the park of Laver- 
stoke House, noble chestnuts sheltering and over- 
shadowing its rough walls, quaint roof, and ancient 
wooden steeple. Around the little enclosure which 
forms the burial-ground stretches an expanse of 
undulating pasture-land, and so secluded is the situ- 
ation that no roadway leads to the lych-gate : and, 
save a glimpse, on a near eminence, of Laverst..ke 
House, no habitation is in sight. The interior of 
the little chapel is beautiful and interesting. Around 
the walls are many memorials of the Portal family, 
the tiny windows are filled with stained-glass, raf- 
ters arc of ancient oak, and on the cross-beams are 
texts in old-fashioned ecclesiastical characters. 
Situated on a higher level than tiie nave, the chan- 
cel is reached by a double flight of white stone 
steps, the Portal vault being underneath the chancel, 
protected by massive doors, and reached by a short 
stair from the nave. Having been conveyed from 
London on Monday afternoon, the coffin was placed 
on a bier in front of the vault. At the top of the 
coffin, of unpolished oak with brass mountings, and 
bearing the inscription, “Sir Gerald Herbert Portal 
K.C.M.G. and G.B.; born 1858, died 25th Jan. 
1894,” was placed the widow’s wreath, and at the 
foot was that sent by his Royal Highness the 
Prince of Wales, “as a mark of sincere regard and 
admiration.” In front of the chancel, upon the 
windowsills and throughout the chapel were many 
other beautiful wreaths, the senders including the 
Earl of Rosebery, the Duke of Norfolk, the Duke 
of Abercorn, Lord Frederic Hamilton, M. P., Mr.and 
Mrs. Leopold de Rothschild, Lord and Lady Minto, 
Lord Norreys, Lieutenant-Colonel Paget (Scots 
Guards), Sir Algernon and Lady Borthwiclc, Vice- 
Admiral Nicholson, Sir Edward Lawson, Lord Hay. 
the Countess of Gosford, the Earl of Pembroke, 
Lady Addington, Sir Francis Grenfell (on behalf 
of the English officers of the Egyptian Army, past 
and present), Mr. Hulse, M.P., and Mrs. Hulse, Miss 
Hubbard, Lady Bertie, Mrs. George Raymond 
Portal, Mr. F. S. Clarke (British Embassy, Paris), 
Mr. and Mrs. Wyndham S. Portal, Sir Charles 
Hunter, and the Laverstoke House servants. 
A number of the mourners, including the Duke 
of Norfolk, journeyed by train from London, reach- 
ing Overton Station shortly before two o’clock. 
Driving thence to Laverstoke, they passed through 
the village of Overton, where as a mark of respect 
and sympathy for the Portal family the shops were 
closed. Outside th 3 lych-gate of the chapel a large 
gathering of the villagers of Laverstoke, Overton, 
and Freefolk, and places more distant, had assem- 
bled, their number being steadily increased until the 
procession of the clergy and choir, preceded by a 
cross bearer, was seen slowly descending the slope 
from Laverstoke House, the white surplices which 
they wore thrown into strong contrast by the fresh- 
ness of the verdure brightened by the January 
sunshine. Meanwhile the chief mourners had taken 
their places in the chapel, and as many as could find 
standing room followed the procession into the sanc- 
tuary. Among the friends and relatives of the de- 
ceased present wore Lady Alice Portal (the widow), 
Lady Edmund Talbot (her sister), Mr. Melville 
Portal (father of Sir Gerald), Colonel and Mrs. 
Codrington, Mr. Wyndham S. Portal, Miss Portal 
and Miss K. Portal, Lord and Lady Norreys, Mrs. 
Chute, the Hon. E. Hubbard, Mrs. W. Portal, Mr. 
M. Knight, Mr. and Mrs. Spencer Portal, Mrs. W. 
W. Portal, Mr. Bertram Portal, Major and Mrs. 
Dundas, Mr. and Mrs. Robert Portal. The con- 
gregation also included the Duke of Norfolk, the 
Earl of Northbrook, the Earl and Countess of 
Portsmouth, Major-General Sir Francis Grenfell, 
the Earl of Minto, Lord Frederic Hamilton, M, 
P., Lord W. Nevill, Lord Rowton, Lord Alwvne 

OxM »Ul §l'! JJ?lMrtl rtlo ?oHl 

loRrtia SJlffirtl iisi 3rt'rt‘< =414 Hlllrtlrtl 
rttfFh Mi'll yh 'i'A- 

ttrt t<543 
Hrt n?3 

<1. Su. Si. itcft-H?;. 

' irt8«rt? ” 3llJ SISi 3rt'rt^ SHlffi UR.IHC-UH S'HH \ 
B. 

rtlHSR. ?j<-lrtlrtl ^iJCrtHi ^Hloui rt €lHy HlBl 
ojiiortiffi oiui tiiitui^ rtiffitiwiMi °i3i4 
O-HRia g'Ml ?UlMl itHWi^lffi sffi ^irt aiitui? 
t) Hlrt HHl tjc-lrtlrtrt ^HlHHlHi "lloHi l4rti rt 
t'l'sSilSi Sii y S? Hi^lrtl SloUlHl *atrt BllntiHliH 
5li i'ilMl ^IHlrtHi MR ftlil MU rtHl ^RlSilSl 
5ii Mi^lrtl °U4tlHi rtHl HRtftSllSl sni yrtlrtl 
uilSilHi SHPHi (Jrti. 

<Hrt<rtl rtlHSR. ycrtrtlrt ffyAtrt A'4-ft3Rl!(li iH- 
HMlrtl yH^lrtBrti'A Mlo $. crttSttlrt uftC-ftu.A R-rtR 
SHl^ w’rtaJlrtRrtl Biflloi 3JllxHl B 3rtrt 3rtl Hlrt HIA' 
gill rtHrt yotRS <81^1 “'tlffiSi BloSH. 

HR. 

an. 
51?. 
?JS?. 
Alrtl. 
tHl. 
ym. 
^IH. 

213. 
SIM. 
ilMl. 
vft. 
4ilH. 
SilH. 

FUNERAL OF SIR GERALD 

PORTAL. 

HtrtR ?i? 354143 ilRrtCrtMl ol? lil'^^lHi Mlo 
%rtCrt 3'li srtrt? ilH MaiS srtor.A 3rtrt SlrtWC-t o/rtta 
rtdi' lidl 3Jtrt cl H’Hrt 3rtrt3' tH,4q5ft Mliclrtl 
tftalljlHi rtlHSR HliiRU-fltiSl Mlo^ 'clirt iHUMlUrt 
=ali y.A Mlua 3Hrt VL’l SSSiRorrtl airtRl 3rtl‘l-Ul 
B Siffi 3rt3.rtl cut HR^rt Hi-ft B. 3rtl Hli 
Mlo \l3rt a'HRi Mlfl SHlffisu B SHrt SH3' 'rtl<l5i 
ti "i rin^j af-J OJIW uaclril rio,i Oal B. 

The remains of the late Sir Gerald Portal were 
yesterday laid to rest within the mortuary chapel at 
Laverstoke, the home of the Portals, near Overton, 
Hampshire. For generations the parishioners of 
Laverstoke worshipped within the building wherein, 
at its re-election, the family vault of the Portals 
was constructed. For over twenty years the pari- 

Compton, Captain the Hon. Arthur Somerset, j 
Captain Lawrence Drummond, Hr. Francis Scott, 
Major Itomilly, Captain Stewart, Rev. M'. Marri- 
ner, Rev. Mr. BiggAVither, Rev. D. Jones, and 
Mr. W. W. B. Jjcach, M.P. The Bisliop of Win- 
chester, assisted by Canon Awdry, rector of Am- 
port, and the Rev. C. P. Berryman, rector ot the 
parish of Laverstoke, conducted the service, the 
hymns being “Lead, kindly light, and “Thy will 
he done.” \t the words, “ Ashes to ashes, dust to du- 
st,” the coffin was wheeled noiselessly into the vault 
and the gates closed. The service over, the near rela- 
tives entered the vault, and the coffin was placed 
upon the stone shelf, where, surrounded by several 
of his kindred already interred in the vault, rests 
allthatis mortal of one whose career was as bril- 
liant ns it was, alas, brief.—Daih) Telegraph. 

THE MATABELE WAR. 

Captain the Hon. C. J. White and Captain 
C. H W. Donovan, who have just arrived from the 
seat of operation in Mataheleland, have communica- 
ted to a representative of Reuter’s Agency an in- 
teresting and detailed account of the fighting which 
resulted in the overthrow of Lobengula. Captain 
the Hon. C J. White, of the 7th Royal Fusiliers, 
who 1ms been for the last three years in the employ- 
ment of the Chartered Company, and during the 
last year in command of their police, is a younger 
brother of Lord Annaly, now in the Scots Guards. 
During the late Matabele campaign he commanded 
the scouting parties of the combined Salisbury and 
Victoria Columns, Captain C. H. W. Donovan, 
of the Army Service Corps, who was formerly in 
the 4th Dragoon Guards, was on a hunting expe- 
dition in Mashonaland when he heard from natives 
of an attack on Victoria by the Matabele. He gave 
very little credence to its because of the extraordinary 
stories told by the natives, and as he could have no 
communication with Victoria he continued his shoot- 
ing expedition intending to return to England at the 
latter end of October. When approaching Victoria, 
however, he heard that the Chartered Company 
had ordered every man in the outlying districts 
to come in to defend the town. He happened to 
be near the Zimbabye Ruins at the time, and as 
the Company’s forcss were going forward he consi- 
dered it incumbent upon him as a British officer to 
lake bis share with his fellow-countrymen in what 
appeared to him the very difficult and arduous task 
which they were undertaking. Captain Donovan 
was attached to the Artillery of the Victoria Co- 
lumn, under Captain Leiidy. Captain White states 
as follows:— 
“About the beginning of July, 1893, I was in 
command of the Company’s police at Salisbury, 
and on the 12th or 18th Dr. Jameson left Salis- 
bury and went to Victoria. While be was away 
rumours became current of Matabele being on the 
border close to Salisbury, in addition to those that 
were in evidence at Victoria, and I was despatched 
to find out about them. 1 went with a patrol of 
police, and found that the Matabele were not up at 
Salisbury, and really never came there. About the ! 
end of August 1 went down to Victoria to Dr. 
Jameson with some more of my police, about lo 
picked men, and interpreters. When 1 got to Vic- 
toria Dr. Jameson sent me to the border, as he 
heard tbeMatabcle were there, and wished to find out J 
exactly what they were doing. I remained on the 
border for about four weeks, and during that time j 
found that the Matabrle were there in considerable j 
numbers, and that they were raiding and driving J 
off cattle from Mashonaland. This was after the 
Victoria collision, which took place about the mid- 
dle of duly. I ordered my police to follow up the 
spoor of these cattle, and this took them to a kraal 
on the border, where they demanded to see the in- 
puna. but the latter refused to come and speak to 

THE GAZETTE. 

j them. The police stayed there some time, vainly 
: waiting for bis appearance, and were eventually 
\ fired upon by the natives. The police returned the 
1 fire, and drew off from the kraal about 1,000 yards, 
! when they saw about 50 Matabele clearing away 
! from the kraal. I reported this matter to Dr. Jame- 
j son,ialso the presence of a large number of Matabele 
! on the border. On the Oth of October the Victoria 
Column, in which myself and my men were now in- 
corporated, started to work along the border, keep- 
1 ing in touch with the Matabelc who were working 
I through Cbilamanzi’s country and Indaima’s coun- 
i try. About the 10th or 17 th of October we got in 
| touch witli fhe Salisbury Column at Thaba Inzi- 
! mba (Iron Mine Hill), and the scouts then bad 
j their first brush with the Matabele near Indiama’s 
Mountain. The Salisbury Column also came in 
contact with the natives, and it was at this time 
that Captain Campbell was killed while chasing 
two or three natives round the rocks. There were 
two impisof the Matabele who kept going along the 
border and driving away the cattle with them as 
they went. Two or three days after this the two 
columns started together for Buluwayo, headed by 
their united scouts. We still had news of these im- 
pis, and still kept touch with the Matabele, infor- 
mation being gained from friendly natives and from 
our own scouts. A few Matabelc scouts were seen 
from time to time. 

“About 15 miles from Iron Mine Hill we came 
across a Mashonawho had been wounded just a few 
hours before whilst carrying grain with other Ma- 
shonas to the column. He staled that the reason 
the Matabele had fired upon him and his compani- 
ons was that on being asked they were doing they 
replied that they were taking grain to the white 
men. So far the various chiefs had brought us 
grain and cattle for the column. We now for the 
first time got news as to the exact position of the 
kraal of the Insukomini Regiment, with which wc 
had had our first brush near Indaima’s Mountain. 
Up to this point we had been going more or less 
through bush, but it was not thick and we kept in 
the open as much as possible. But whatever might 
be the character of the country, we found that the 
enemy kept moving just on our left flank, and dur- 
ing this time were raiding and burning villages of 
the Mashonns and taking away their cattle. The 
country was very hilly and almost impossible for 
mounted men to work in. At this point (viz, 15 
miles from Iron Mine Hill) the enemy for the first 
time crossed our front, as we found by their spoors, 
and now we began to get into the open country 
called the Gwelo Flats. After leaving Iron Mine 
Hill we had kept along the water of the Rivers 
Zambesi and Limpopo, thus keeping on the high 
round, and though this was a circuitous route, it 
avoided all the difficulties attendant upon crossing 
rivers, or entering mountain passes, and thus pro- 
ved a saving of time. Following this ridge the co- 
lumn reached the source of the Gwelo river, about 
25 miles from Thaba Inximba. Captain Gwynydd 
Williams was sent forward, and came back with the | 
information that the natives were at the Insukomini 
Kraal, about 20 miles to the north-west. Captain 
Williams in performing this duty rode GO odd miles 
out and back, starting from camp at about noon and 
returning at 10 p.m., taking about 10 men with | 
him, a veiy smart bit of riding. He had during j 
this time thoroughly reconnoitred the kraal. Major ! 
Forbes sent out a force that evening to surround ■ 
the kraal by daybreak and attack the regiment. 1 
was not with that force, but Captain Donovan went 
with them.” 

Captain Donovan states:—“My first intimation * 
that anything was contemplated was about ten o’ i 
clock at night. 1 was asleep under the waggon, and 
was awakened by hearing some of (Mir men talking J 
quietly, and heard that they were to get up and sad- ! 
die their horses. I was a attached to the Maxim : 
guns, and 1 asked what was going on. Captain j 

7tli March 1894 
Lendy said they were going out to attack a kraal 
in the morning, and, after asking permission to go 
got a horse and went off. We started about eleven 
o’clock on a dark night, the distance before us be- 
ing, as wc were told, about 15 or 20 miles. \\A 
followed a Kaffir path through some verv thick 
bush. At one. time a body of us lost touch with 
the leading part of the column, and had to halt for 
about 10 minutes or so looking for the road. This 
was about one in the morning, and in about an hour 
later wc crossed a small river. The Salisbury parr 
of the column, which was in front, went over one 
drift and the Victoria section over another to save 
time in the dark. 'When we got over we lost touch 
with the Salisbury column, who were about half a 
mile away from us, and were unable to find them in 
the bush. Captain Fitzgerald went forward, hut 
very shortly came hack and said lie had ridden 
right into an irnpi, who were evidently running a- 
way. Captain Fitzgerald was in charge of the Ko. 
1 troop of the Victoria column. We came up to 
the kraal about half an hour after sunrise, and saw 
that there was a river running on each side of it. 
Major \\ ilson, who was in charge of the whole co- 
lumn, divided it into two parties. One, under Cap- 
tain Heany, was to attack the enemy on the left, 
and the other, of which lie wasin charge, was to attack 
them in the front. The party on the"left had orders 
not to fire until Major Wilson fired one shot as a 
signal. We advanced, keeping well under cover 
on the other. side of the river, and Captain Lendy 
put the Maxim gun on an anthill commanding the 
kraal. Several rounds being fired by the Salisbury 
Maxim, and there being no response from the kraal, 
the ‘cease fire was sounded. Advancing into the 
kraal, we found that it was deserted, nothing being 
left in it but one or two old sick cows. We went 
all round the place, and observed that there was a 
splendid formation for gold, in fact a reef ran right 
through the kraal, which was on the borders of the 
Samabuln forest, the huts were beautifully clean, 
and the floor of one was so brightly polished that 
you could almost have seen your face in it. There 
was an enormous quantity of grain, which was very 
acceptable for our horses. We went down to the 
river ‘offsaddled, ’ had some breakfast, and waited 
there for about an hour. All of us loaded up our 
horses with grain for their consumption on the road 
back. J. may here mention the great care, even ten- 
derness, with which our men treated their horses. 
After a halt of about a couple of hours we saddled up 
again to return, and burnt the military kraal. As 
soon as we set it on fire we heard a roar go up from 
the hills on the left, which showed that the people 
who had deserted the kraal had been lying there 
watching us the whole time. We reached camp about 
sundown that evening many of the horses being so 
knocked up from the hard march that many of the 
men had to walk and lead their horses. Our force, 
consisted of men taken from each column, and was 
150 strong. "We started on the night of October 21, 
burnt the kraal on the 22nd, and returned to camp 
on the evening of the 22nd. The kraal is about 70 
or 80 miles from Bulawayo north-east. Major Wil- 
son was in command of the column, and we had three 
Maxims, two on carriages, and one pack.” 

Captain White continued :—“During these ope- 
rations the column had moved forward about eight 
miles. The average day’s march was 10 miles, and 
the column was now within three miles of the end of 
the Samabula Forest. The impi had gone off to the 
west. The next day (about the 22nd) the column 
moved forward and passed through the end of the 
Samabula Forest, which is there very narrow, only 
about a quarter of a mile through. Wc came out 
into the open again. That morning there wiis a fog. 
We. found out afterwards that the Insukomini Regi- 
ment. with others, had the intention of attacking us 
whilst passing through this end of Samabula Forest, 
hut it seems that they missed us owing to the fog. 
The column that day made two treks^ one in the 

7tli March. 1894. 
morning, and one in the evening. Whilst halting at 
midday the scouts went on, in order to find out how 
far the Shangani River was ahead, ns wc had infor- 
mation that the Matabele were there waiting to attack 
us. Soon after leaving camp we came upon some 
Matabele, who were trekking across our front in the 
direction of the Insukomini Kraal, and were evidently 
part of the big impis. Our scouts had a small enga- 
gement with them, killing seven. After this the 
scouts found four big deserted schirms, where a large 
body of Matahele had evidently just been camped, 
there being the skulls of 22oxen lying about and the 
fires still smouldering. It lias since turned out that 
this body of men belonged to the Insukomini Regi- 
ment and others who had been waiting to attack us, 
hut had luckily missed our column owing to the fog in 
the morning and the quick rate at which we were 
travelling, and they had trekked backed to the Insu- 
komini Kraal, passing on our right flank and to our 
rear, and returned to their kraal, having received in- 
formation that the kraal had been burned. They 
evidently thought that the remainder of the column 
had not advanced, but had remained at the Gwelo 
River eight miles in the rear, as a force of white men 
had gone to their big kraal and burnt it, and this a 
native would consider a big undertaking in itself for 
one day. This body of Matahele was about 4,000 
strong, and they did not understand our column 
moving so quickly. It had evidently put them out in 
their calculations. We had been playing a game of 
hide and seek in the. fog, which in the morning had 
been very dense. The column then trekked in the 
afternoon close up to the place where the above-men- 
tioned schirms were. Schirms are formed out of the 
branches of trees, which are cut down and made into 
a circular fortification as in the Soudan zereha. The 
next morning early, about four o’clock, Captain 
Williams, the Hon. M. Gifford, Mr. Burnett, Mr. 
Paget, and others went forward again to try and 
discover how close the Shangani River was. That 
morning also there was a fog, and the party lost their 
way, forwhen the fog cleared and we were trekking we 
found Captain William’s party about three quarters 
of a mile off on our left, trying to signal to us with the 
heliograph. Captain Williams said by signal, he was 
going on to the Shangani as soon as the fog had clea- 
red, and he reached this river about mid-day. This 
was on the23rd, thedayon which Burnettwas shot. 

(To be Continued.) 

AMONG THE SOFAS. 

One of the few Europeans who have come in 
contact with the Sofas—a Frenchman who pas- 
sed several weeks among them barely two years 
ago—sends us the following notes on these scour- 
ges, to free the regions of the Upper Niger 
from whom is the object of the expedition, which 
lias just had the misfortune to be attacked by the 
French by mistake:— 

The explorer traversing the countries of the 
Upper Niger, such as Tamisso, Houre, Koukomna, 
it'c., which arc situated on the Anglo-French 
frontier, is quickly led to a curious conclusion; to 
form an approximate idea of the state of things 
in those regions he must carry himself hack to the 
Middle Ages, hut solely as regards the coarse bru- 
tal, and rudimentary features of the Social insti- 
tutions of that period, without any trace -of litera- 
ture or art. 
At the top of the social scale is the Almamy or 
King; at the bottom the bondsman or slave, who 
is none other than the serf of feudal times. Like 
the gens de poeste, or villeins, the bondsman is 
liable to he taxed at discretion from head to 
foot. cultivates the soil in the plain, and the 
harvest over, he carries it to the tutu installed on 
the heights—an agglomeration of four or five large 
huts, surrounded by high walls of stone or of pise. 
The lata corresponds to our feudal castle. In the 
critical hours of war—and they arc frequent among 

9 

THE GAZETTE. 

the blacks—the bondsmen scattered in the pla111 
are warned, and come to take refuge behind the 
walls of the tutu and to defend it. 
Moreover, between the freemen and the bonds- 
men even a trace of the corporations with their 
spirit of caste and their privileges is to be recog- 
nized. Under the name of griot we discover the 
troubador himself! Finally, the Sofas complete 
this mediaeval atmosphere. They represent, indeed 
nothing else than those hands of marauders mer- 
cenaries, and reiters who devastated Europe before 
the 16th century, and under pretext of religious wars 
pillaged and killed Papists and Huguenots alike. 
Foreigners belonging to no country, they dashed im- 
petuously along the high-roads, sowing terror and 
desolation—pitiless conquerors. 
Such are the Sofas. Do you wish for a picture 
of their settlement at Salliaya, the capital of Houre 
a little kingdom near the English colony ofi Sierra 
Leone? Rather read again the chapter which Me- 
rimee, in his “Chronique du regne de Charles IX” 
has entitled “Les Reitres.” 
“Whilst some groomed their horses, which were 
tethered to the wall, others made up the fire, turn- 
ed the spits, and busied themselves with cooking. 
The unhappy innkeeper, cap in hand and a tear in 
his eye, surveyed the scene of disorder of which his 
kitchen was the theatre. He saw poultry-yard des- 
troyed, and his cellar pillaged. And the worst was 
that there was no compensation to expect. It is a 
wellknown fact that in that unhappy time in 
peace as in war , a troop of soldiers always had free 
quarters wherever it might he.” 
Substitute “native” for “innkeeper” and there is 
not a comma to he changed in that description; it is 
exactly the life which those black marauders lead in 
the capital of Houre. Sisseke, their principal chief 
in that country had installed himself in the ag- 
glomeration of huts which forms the Royal palace; 
the King of Houre himself, wretched and. in rags, 
was reduced to begging in the streets of his former 
capital. 
The Sofas have as their supreme master the po- 
tenate of the right hank of the Niger—Samory— 
who strives to urge them to the conquest of the left 
bank. Having failed in the north, near Senegal, 
where Colonel Archinard and the expeditionary 
corps of the Upper River have beaten him again 
and again, he has attempted an opening in the 
south, near the borders of Sierra Leone, and has 
intrusted the command of this attempt to Kemoko 
Bilali, his best lieutenant. 
Samory is one of those Soudanese conquerors 
like Tieba, King of Sikosso, who in a few years 
found empires of considerable superficial extent, 
thanks to the terror which they inspire by reason 
of the sanguinary character of their campaigns. 
They thus succeed in collecting under their au- 
thority fairly numerous populations. But their 
methods of warfare—pillage, fire, extermination— 
do not enrich them much. The territories annexed 
do not suffice for their existence, and they are thug 
condemned to prosecute, from year to year, their 
expeditions against the peoples who surrounded 
them. Such has been the existence of Samory for 
about 20 years. It is probable that he will be the 
last of these Soudanese Attilas, for now that 
French conquest is organizing itself little by little, 
and military posts cover the country in all parts, 
the reappearance of similar scourges seems wholly 
impossible. 
How do the Sofas recruit their numbers? By 
the chance results of their conquests. A town be- 
ing taken, a country being conquered, the Sofa 
chiefs make a choice among the captives. The 
young and vigorous men go to augment their forces; 
the others are sold to slave merchants. Samory’s 
bands, then, form a collection of all the negro 
races of the Soudan: there are Sarakoules, Bam- 
haras, Wolofs side by side with Timenes and Ma- 
liukes. 

Their costume almost invariably consists of a 
jacket and a pair of very short drawers. Their 
heads are not entirely shaved, like those of the in- 
digenous tribes, but only in places, in such a way as 
to keep on the skull one, two or three tufts of hair 
which they allow to grow as long as possible. These 
clown’s locks, some twisted rings of wrought iron 
on the arms, and a few grigris (fetishes) arc the 
only ornaments of their costume. 
It is not only by their dress that at first sight 
they uiffier from the natives, who go about clad in 
bonbons, long and flowing robes after the style of 
the Arab costumes. Nothing in the gait, in the 
maimer of the Sofas recalls the customary indolence 
of the blacks. The eye is quick, the air alert, and 
they impress by their animation, vigour, and sup- 
pleness. They should he seen galloping on horse- 
back behind their chiefs, hounding across the tall 
grasses, up hill and down dale for hours together 
in a heat like that of a furnace; truly their degree of 
animation is remarkable. Add to this portrait en - 
dless muzzleloaders, or some chasepots and Gras 
rifles, adorn these types with large sabres on the 
one side, with powder-flasks on the other, with 
little bullet-bags and knives almost everywhere, and 
you will have the perfect black condottiere. 
The Sofa privates are all infantry, and there is 
no cavalry properly so called among their troops. 
The chiefs, who are rather numerous, alone are 
mounted, and their mounts consists of horses of 
the size of ponies, degenerate descendants of the 
Arab race. There is nothing uniform in the cos- 
tume of the chiefs unless it be the spurs which all 
wear fastened even to the naked feet. For the 
rest, they seem to have dressed in the cave of Fra 
Diavolo. One has made himself a bonbon with a 
travelling rug, striped, tiger-like, with orange and 
black: another decks himself ridiculously in a horse- 
guard’s tunic which has lost its smartness; a third 
struts about in the complete uniform of a Senegal 
spahi (some deserter, perhaps). I have seen one 
who had sewn a fishing-neton a long fawn-coloured 
jacket, and so seemed to he in a coat of mail. The 
bonbons of all colours are indeed, the lot of tlje less 
fortunate : the really best form is to wear two or 
three superposed one upon the other and/ of di- 
fferent shades. But it is in the choice i/f head- 
dresses that their fancy has given itself the freest 
course. Turbans, fezzes, native caps rather similar 
to our night-caps, straw hats arched in the An- 
namite fashion, or pointed like the cover of a bee- 
hive, velvet skull-caps, caps of monkey-fnr, all kinds 
are found. As to the horses, with their little bells 
and their grigris round the neck, covered with 
many-coloured headwork almost everywhere, they 
are in perfect harmony with this ludicrous medley 
of colours. 

Arrived on the territories of which the Sofas had 
taken possession, Kemoko-Bilali, their great chief, 
sent to escort and to salute us a certain number of 
his lieutenants. We were delighted to see them 
gallop among us, on the flanks of our column, for 
with them galloped as well—hut on foot—all their 
“establishment,” civil, military, and conjugal, at 
once. Each chief had his own, consisting of, say, 
six, or seven hectoring fellows and one or two wives. 
The latter carried on their heads the rice and other 
eatables and the cooking utensils. The former, be- 
sides their personal arms, were entrusted—one with 
the chief’s gun, another with his sabre, another 
with his hammock another with his sandals, another 
with his little copper basin destined for the ab- 
lutions prescribed by the Koran, another with a 
small chair exceedingly low, very curious by reason 
of its silhouette with Romanesque lines—a gift of 
honour from their supreme chief, Samory. To the 
Sofas this little piece of furniture represents some- 
thing like the Order of the Bath or the Legion of 
Honour. During the march all the men and wo- 
men surround the chief without intermission, like 
the setting of a gem, trotting when he trots, leaping 

10     

^li^rTbu leaps, and only resting when he deigns to 
descend from his saddle. There are tliose who, like 
the fourth officer in the song about Marlborough, 
carry nothing. They, like gadflies, attach them- 
selres closely to the horse’s crupper, and, according 
to the needs of the moment, stimulate him to speed 
or moderate his pace by—hanging on to his tail. 
The envoys of Kemoko—Bilali had bidden us 
welcome by presenting us with a pannier of kola 
nuts, which, among the negroes of the Upper iNigei 
take the place of the bread and salt of Western hos- 
pitality. They had also bestowed upon us a stockof 
honeyed words, all coloured with the exquisite polit- 
ness of the Orientals. “You have left your own 
home,’' said the principal person among them “and 
you are now at home again. You need concern 
yourselves with nothing further. Your mouths are 
my mouth. Your eyes are my eyes. Your feet 
arc rny feet. Your desires are my desires. I will 
provide for your sustenance. I will procure you all 
the porters you need. If you need some one to 
carry your pipe you shall have him.’ 
When we arrive at Simangarea, where Kemoko- 
Bilali had established his camp, a sumptuous recep- 
tion is prepared fo rus. We find three large cabins 
erected to shelter us with our people. Hardly have 
we dismounted from our horses then immense ca- 
labashes are brought to us, containing hot cooked 
rice, seasoned with not very inviting sauces, and 
smelling of rancid oil—the d? plus ultra of negro 
culinary art. 
They have cleared the space before our huts for 
a great distance and the attention touches us very 
much, for it shelters us from an unforeseen attack 
or from a surprise which our dangerous hosts might 
meditate. It is not, however, with that intention 
that they have cleared the space before us. We 
very soon see why it has been done. Hardly have 
our tents been pitched and our installation complet- 
ed than, lo the plain is invaded by two or three thou- 
sand' Sofas, who, at the other extremity, proceed to 
group, themselves in a semi-circle before our cabins. 
An attack? No, an entertainment. 
Kcmoko-Bilnli himself conducts the fete. He 
comes to us curvetting on Ids horse, surrounded 
by tambourine players, also on horseback, clad in 
blue, red, and white, with long scarves worn cross- 
wise. He is followed by his personal guard, ten 
foot- soldiers in a rank, knowing, marvellous to 
relate, almost how to march in step and keep their 
rifles on their shoulders as they should do. They 
are all armed with chassepots and Gras rifles. They 
must have been drilled by some deserter from our 
Senegal troops. 
It is Kemoko-Bilrdi whom the English troops 
will have to fight in the course of the expedition. 
He is the favourite lieutenant of Samory, who has 
given him the command of all the Sofas in that part 
of his territory. He is a negro, still young, with 
very regular features and a very alert air: Ids intel- 
ligent face impresses one at once. A skilful nego- 
tiator, almost a diplomatist, he seemed to us, in the 
course of numerous palavers which we subsequently 
had with him, to be far above the average of the 
most gifted negroes. Finally, his courage is pro- 
verbial among the Sofas. When for the first time 
he appeared to us at this entertainment, he put him- 
self to enormous pains to appear interesting—caper- 
ing, curvetting, very proud to discharge before us 
the six shots of the revolver which he held in each 
hand changing his horse as many as three times 
without, however, finding a solid seat on his saddle 
any the more for that. The expense lavished on his 
toilet was great. He strutted in a dazzling orange 
robe with ample folds and wide sleeves, whence ap- 
peared, as well by the slashing of the sides as by 
the lower part of the garment, underclothing of pure 
white, which still further heightened the gorgeous- 
ness of the robe. This latter was rendered more 
taking by some long red curtain bands which were 
arranged crosswise on the chest. The extremities 1 

the gazette.  
were attired with not less originality: his feet were 
encased in Moorish boots of yellow leather, and on 
his head was placed, as the crowning decoration, 
a skull-cap of black velvet with a gold tassel, 
such as that worn by a Parisian concierge or a Ger- 
man professor. For my part I thought him superb 
in that audacious combination of colours and nc- 
coutremen ts.—The. Timex. 

(To he Continued.) 

TRANSPORT ON THE ZAMBESI. 
TRADE OF BRITISH CENTRAL AFRICA. 

The Biitish Consul at Quilimane, in a re- 
cent report on the trade of that place, men- 
tions that nothing has yet been done towards 
organizing the steamer transport to Maga- 
rumbe. Transport to Chilomo and Katunga 
(Port Blantyre) is done from Chinde for the 
most part by steamers and lighters towed by 
steamers. Rough goods go mostly by lighters 
propelled by oars and sails. The value of the 
imports and exports of British Central Africa 
amounted last year to £80,000, says the Times, 
most of the imports and all the exports 
passing through Chinde. The anti-slavery 
expedition under the command of Major von 
Wissmann placed a steam launch and two 
large lighters on the Zambesi, which were 
subsequently made use of by the Admiralty 
expedition entrusted with the transport 
of the three Nyassa gunboats. In the 
course of the coming year probably four 
more steamers, with attendant lighters, will 
be placed on the Zambesi; some of these will 
belong to the African Flotilla Company and 
the rest to private firms. The fuel used on 
river steamers is mostly wood. Coal is imported 
from time to time from Natal both to Chinde 
and Quillimane, but no coal from the Zam- 
besi has yet come on the market. The tele- 
graph line has been completed to Chinde, 
Gwengue, and Maquival, and is being rapidly 
pushed on to Tete. The main lines to 
Chilomo and Gwengue are well looked after, 
hut that to Chinde is unreliable dming tbe 
wet season. The lines are largely used, and 
are much appreciated by merchants.—Tall 
Mall Gazette. 

UGANDA. 

(FROM OCR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT.) 

MENGO, UGANDA, June 25. 
Selim Bey again reiterated that if Mwanga attacked 
the Mahomedans he would consider that he was 
being attacked, and further added that if any active 
measures were put in force against them he and his men 
would at once come up and join them. This was mutiny 
point blank. A kind of ominous silence prevailed as the 
Soudanese assembled to watch our departure. Selim 
Bey. by lotting us go. lost tbe best card he held in his 
hand. 
After a somewhat trying march we arrived safely at 
Kampala alxmt 10-50 p.m.. and there f learnt the details 
of all that had happened from Captain Macdonald him- 
self. Immediately after the receipt of Selim Bey's mes- 
sage he had despatched runners to overtake the Commis- 
sioner (then supposed to be in Kavirondo), with letters 
detailing the serious state of affairs and asking him to 
return. Me had carried out his programme that after- 
noon, and everything had passed off well. The members 
of the C.M. S. had strolled quietly over to the fort, and 
when all was ready the Soudanese were; called upon to 
show their loyalty, which they at once did by marching 
over to the Zanzibari campus directed. In addition, he 
had also quietly arrested Junta anti two others that 
morn ini.', having found them within the Soudanese quar- 
ters. Me had informed .luma that, in consequence of 
Selim Bey’s message, they would be retained as hostages 
for the good behaviour of the Mahomedans. and that he 

7th March 1894 
(.luma) must send them word to say that if they wished 
to prove their pacific intentions, as they said, they must 
leave N'atete at once and return to their provinces. 
Juma replied that unless he went himself they would 
not listen. Thereupon Captain Macdonald intimated 
that he would accompany him. and that upon the first, 
sign of treachery he would have him shot. Upon hear- 
ing this Juma was exceedingly anxious to remain behind, 
but was taken down in spite of his unwillingness to go’ 
Captain Macdonald (who ran considerable risk in thus 
exposing himself almost unguarded in their midst) 
called up the principal chiefs on his arrival at Natctc. 
They declared they had no desire to enter upon hostilities 
and would give up the Mujasi, in addition to Juma, as a 
hostage, but that as he was ill at the time he could not 
be brought up to Kampala till the following morning. 
In the meantime they produced two others, who were 
taken back to the fort. 
Upon receiving the further intelligence of the muti- 
nous language used to Mr. Reddic, in addition to the 
news that the Mahomedans had been reinforced by seve- 
ral hundred rifles from their provinces on the night of 
our arrival at Kampala, Captain Macdonald decided 
upon taking certain more active measures, which the 
urgency of the situation demanded. Accordingly, on the 
following morning. June 18, the English missionaries 
who came forward most readily and proffered their 
services at this crisis arrived at the fort, and were 
armed, in common with all the other Europeans at Kam- 
pala. All the available coast porters were likewise 
mustered and armed, and the Maxim gun made ready 
for action. These preparations completed, Captain Mac- 
donald ordered the Soudanese to fall in outside the fort. 
Under cover of the rifles of the impromptu garrison he 
went out. and, after addressing the soldiers, ordered them 
to lay down their arms. The moment was critical, but 
the order was obeyed, and the men marched quietly off 
the ground. In the meantime the King’s war drums had 
beaten, and the Protestants had mustered in strong 
force. A message was then sent to the Mahomedans 
who had not fulfilled their promise of sending the Muja- 
si up as a hostage to inform them that if they had not 
left Nanete cn route for their provinces by 12 o’clock 
they would be turned out by force. In a short time the 
messenger returned and reported that they had refused 
to leave and were preparing to fight, so the Protestants 
were ordered to go and evict them from Natetc. 
A quarter of an hour afterwards the firing commenced 
and the first wounded began to arrive at Kampala. It 
was soon over. The Mahomedans fled towards their 
provinces hotly pursued by the Protestants, who are said 
to have considerably damaged their disorganised ranks, 
the Mujasi being one of the first to fall. Though report- 
ed as being too ill to come to the fort, he was not too ill 
to fight, and thereby his life was justly forfeited. The 
Protestant loss was not at all serious. Some M> or 17 
wounded came in for treatment by Dr. Moffat, only two 
of the cases proving fatal. Some* of the others, though 
most severely wounded, exhibited the marvellous recu- 
perative powers possessed by the native constitution in 
cases of serious injury, and rapidly recovered from the 
shock of their wounds. Before proceeding to extremi- 
ties with the Mahomedans, arrangements had been made 
with the Protestants to leave a reserve of 500 guns 
behind to reinforce the garrison at the fort; but, carried 
away by the prevailing excitement, they had all joined 
in the pursuit. This was somewhat awkward, as Cap- 
tain Macdonald had intended to march on to Port Alice 
the following day. in order to disarm the Soudanese 
there and arrest Selim Bey, who was reported to have 
sent pickets out along the road to Mengo. As it appear- 
ed quite possible that Selim Bey might offer resistance, 
it was necessary to take down an adequate force, and 
Captain Macdonald was therefore obliged to await the 
return of the Protestants. With a view to securing their 
safety, he had requested the English missionaries to take 
up their residence inside the fort until all further danger 
was over, and to this arrangement they had readily 
agreed. The French priests stationed at Rubaga hail 
fled with all their followers towards Buddu on the first, 
sign of approaching hostilities. Before leaving they 
wroie a most amusing letter to Captain Macdonald, ex- 
cusing their flight on the ground that their creed fore- 
bade them to indulge in hostilities. 
By noon on the 10th the bulk of the Protestants had 
returned, and Captain Macdonald now only awaited the 
return of Lieutenant Arthur who was expected that 
evening, before advancing on to Port Alice. However, 
as the day wore on, some Waganda scouts came in to 
report that Selim Bey had left Port Alice with his force 
and was marching across to join the Mahomedans. The 
war drv:ms at once rang out, and some 2,000 Protestants 
started to cut them off. \\ hen the further news arrived 
that he was within an hour’s march of the capital the 
excitement became intense. It turned out. however, 
to be a false larm, as it was merely a deputation of 11 
Soudanese arriving irom Port Alice with a message from 
Selim Bay that he would give in and obey all orders, and 
that everything was right at Port Alice. These messen- 
gers were immediately disarmed and brought in. During 
the evening Lieutenant Arthur arrived,!accompanied by 

11 

tHHft 3Ri W. Sig' oVIJJlHHlHi SHlH 3 £ =Hl g&SU 
(A'S'Ht'H 6s}' a<lCHHlHl 'll =Hl H^ 
<1 <H=UH HHI 'HH hh Shi <H61=. Mi'll 6rti. <si«i 
S^CHl Hi Su^l3 MiiHlHi SHI'm 3, ^ <tH<Kl 
§f£'Hl 8. ^CHl ullH^fl §4CHi HIMIHU MHIJL 
HRMl 3 rt (453 nssfl n'lillii' Hlfl, Miji Hijl JjHmi- 
Hl 'H'Si'fl ■"-■'hHI MlJ HHiil HlSiai n'lillHHWi 
SHIH 8. 5HS “j£l lAj HIH Mini'll HHIJI MlV^l 8. 
illiM ■"'■'H'fl MMCHi GilSui t5V>flilSRi CHlHHWi 
5HIH 6 '-HH 'HRl? HJltoi ("'■'MHlSnli Rl CHf 
WHIMI 'HloMl 8. Jilil (HRn Hln'HUn' tLlSiL 
MMGfl 8. (41CH SWHtHi yilfl ijCHltj 8. tgMHIH'ft 
Gilsl'H >1101*1 |ilMl Ml8l SMlil MHUil 
MlBl Hl^ Ifl'il 8. HJHSIH MCH?i cHIhH 
CHHtHH cMi Hl^HHlMi 5HIHHL—iMHlH fe'-S. 

c-Qsh wiaiiHiM 13*11 Sm£> 8 i 'H'a^'ti iA'| am1 
3JHICHMIHI (Hltl'Hl H'-'i wai(4 HH’m’g/ 8 HHA ci (jiUl 

41MM ^(4?l 'H'tt 'HRU HlWlSi aUSl. 

HHC-U ‘•Hlrl 

THE GAZETTE. 

•irCU-CI »u?K-ii «mi swnmi 

French priests had also come over to the fort, and done 
their best to dispel the unfavourable impression created 
by their previous conduct.—The Times. 
{To be Continued.') 

7 th. March 1894 
a few men, having made forced marches from Usoga. He 
had been kept in a state of considerable anxiety e>i route 
as the most contradictory reports had reached him about 
the state of affairs, and he knew not what to expect on 
his arrival at Kampala. 
The following morning, June 20, Captain Macdonald 
Dr. Moffat, Mr. Rcddie, Mr. Foster, of the C. M. S., and 
myself started for Port.Alice. The force which accompa- 
nied us consisted of a guard composed of some of the 
original lot of Soudanese brought up from the coast (who 
ai° A (As *1H*i yyc-tHMi 
behaved admirably throughout), a Maxim, and some 700 
ami ■'ua' 143’. *wai S«ti 
"Waganda armed with guns, in addition to a vast number 
of spearmen under the command of the Sekibobo. 
Jc-U “Htfl 'HI <H H sl'Hl Ms} &s}', 
Lieutenant Arthur was left in command at Kampala. 
■Hm 'HWU HnHHWi'HlH'fl (idl S 'VHCt "/di tiSil 
On the road we encountered the Frenchmen returning 
to Rubaga. They looked excessively jsheepish, and from 
Hltsl Sii “flM WHi. dl HBl 31-iii 
their muddy and generally dishevelled appearance they 
S SHMift Hid SiSlU dl$lKl 
must have run fast and bccnjutterly regardless of swamps. | 
tA'iSilSi SWHWMI H'Sc-t'ft nHClSHl Sis dldi 4SHd 
When wo arrived within sight of the station the Souda- j 
sMh dl1”}' &}'. 'HRCHl mhm =hhch 
nose could be observed gathering on the crest of the hill I 
to watch our approach. At 3 p.m. we halted some 800 j 
di Hi "id MlisSCl 'Id dsi dl*i I&J- 'HI 
yards distant. The advance guard, consisting of Captain 
‘‘HlHH si'.'*"' 'HPHl SHWldi ICHllJ 'llj HHd «Uildi 
Macdonald, Dr. Moffat, and Mr. Reddie. with the Sou-! 
danese, then went forward with the Maxim, Mr. Foster 
ihi} aniSwfl snadl ddmi dHftSd shr sru- 
and myself bringing up the rear with the Waganda. 
Hldi 'Hrfl. 'Hl'fl ayCHHldl'fl tiHH ^'1(1 CHRI^fl 
Accompanied by the Soudanese, and under cover of the 
SUi-tl di Syinfo s dUi Shi dtf sid.i 
Maxim Captain Macdonald ascended the hill, and having | 
formed Selim liey's peoiilc in a line, he ordered tliciii sJHdn' ^WldldlHl Sis SllXl HPRl ^CHAiHdi £§41 
»lay down their arms. The order was obeyed, and the 
A'U H'-tU '18 =H* <WL MMIH MRlMi =H4 MIM* Si’ll 
whole affair was thus happily finished. 
mKI ssilH wnrii 3sg' 143'. o/mih 'hi Aod 
The entire force now marched on into the station. Im- 
AIMH SHliHRi MlGid,' &}. cMl< (Ml Sid HM ’lli-dM 
mediately on our arrival Selim Bey sent a message to Cap- 
tain Macdonald to ask why he had come down with such 
HdMllJSll 'HEl'HHct HPHHR (415/H (Jrtl. (t'Ht HUM 
a strong force, and to say that, as it was late, he would 
MiftH MiCH*l MHtlS AH' MMl, 5HM MWCHASIH '-HH 
see him the following morning. By way of an answer 
§SM*fl 'HR 'Hl'HHHR Slfel S/M. «/Ml^ 
to this amazing piece of effrontery, Captain Macdonald 
went down and arrested him in his house. He made no 
'-HI SlHMl a'ilMCHl 6AI (Mf? (S'j'Hl'H Hill'd 
reply when Captain Macdonald informed him that he 
Hll't'U M'hTHI 'H'lH "ilA nil'll 'HR 'HRH'U'l'HI 
would be tried the next morning for mutiny and treason. 
SMH MM HI* l Ml<l M 5110*11 (Jrtl. *Sil* 
The Waganda were now picketed out round the hill as 
guards for the night, the Sekibobo conducting the opera- 
'ft'HHltS' "''HI* '"'HU0*}', MIHl cl'Hl'H HI-*}' M§1. 
tions in a manner deserving of the highest credit. The 
'Hl'ft ^lortf? *5*1 SMH ■'HlGd <HIH SHHl* «SH 1/1*1, 
following morning Selim Bey was brought up to stand 
his trial. The Court was composed of Captain Macdonald, 
Mm Midi 5HH1H * MHl'H, Hl'llA'* *§l *5*1 
as president, with Mr. Forster and myself as assessors. 
SMH *15(15*1 |liHl* 4HH 'Hl'-*l. i* nm* ‘HIH 
The charges having been read over to him, Selim Boy 
mmi S nmi t3's,'*i Msind mhi 5h* rih <his 
pleaded ‘‘Not Guilty.” In the end he was found guilty 
of the first charge, the evidence not being quite strong 
SHIM mwl'P. MlMHlMi 'Hl'fl (4*1, Mm * 'HMlSl 'Hl»{l 
enough to convict him on the second. The Court senten- 
MH(W <H«ft 6*1. 4HUHWi*l <*153 Mm MH{IeI 
ced him to be degraded from his rank as colonel of the 
'H* *WHMl*Wi 30 M"?l* =HR CHMliHWi 'Hl*l 
Soudanese Regiment, to forfeit all arrears of pay due to 
him from the time of his entering the Government servi- 
6*1. SHAW 3HI <1**1 >M<HH 'llHClS'tl SSlSiH 'H* 
ce. ami to bo banished to the Island of Nzaze in the 
*l%(lSA Ml53H*i *U <MAH* AHHRi SHI<1 6*1. 
Victoria Lake, pending further arrangements being made 
5H* *U *MAH M*MlH*fl S3. SHI!?. Ml. <«* H15W- 
for his ultimate removal to the Coast, and that in the 
meantime he would receive up allowance of Rs.100 per 
£lMHHl*l s*S £4*1* 511? 5*SSM MH5U SHloHl 6<ll. 
month for expenses. 
MMMIH’HI* 5HI HR* 'HA<0l5t Hlo HIACHHHM 6AI, 
On June 22 Selim Bey was escorted, down to the shore 
*nm Mm *1“ *l*AH HUM MH5U 'IMl 601. MM51- 
of the lake by Air. Reddie and a guard of Waganda. Two 
Hlil HUS’ MHSUHi 'Ht*l yiMl JHIS *lo <WAH, 
canoes were in readiness, Selim Bey was lifted into one, 
Hl5M?lMH ?locH <HHl<HH *15*1*, SHUHlMt !(HHl 
and I took my place in the other. After a stiff paddle 
against a heavy sea we reached Nzaze which is situated 
*l44Ml 601. HlH5i' HUO M15HM Mim'd *H^ 
some 15 miles out to sea, opposite Port Alice. On land- 
HKHoflM^l* M»l MOMIH *144*1 601. 5»iMSOMH'd 
ing I at once made arrangements with the chief of the is- 
<*(<* *XlH l?0$0*l*l loo MimHi*l Sii 44d H*H(l- 
land for the accommodat ion of Selim Bey, and those of 
his dependents who wore to be allowed to accompany 
MCH oRHl HI* <* Ml* MM5U 5*1*1 H'd (4*1- 5HH14H 
him into exile. These arrangements being satisfactorily 
'HI*! MMHl <HIS sil? Mm *3 <613 MM3' * §1*1*1 
concluded I started on my return journey to Mengo the 
** 1?H>-(|015MI stlSMl HlRnwi 'Hlo'}* 64'. M§51 
following morning. Before taking my departure I told 
the chief, in the presence of Selim Bey, that he was res- 
*§51,' §4514 M'sKHnln 516*1* *M HI* H13 Mi}' 63 ^ 
ponsible for his safeguard, and that Selim Bey was to be 
5*4 HRl 5^*1 5U&3 63'. 'HI =UH SSUS 5*15*1 
allowed to bold no communication with the mainland 
iHli*! §45Hi>*lHlOl 6l'MMi 601. “»'* £l*lOi Slil-li 
under any circumstances whatever; if he should at any 
time attempt to escape he was immediately to be put to 
AlSfi-lMi, 6lMRi CHlsilMl H*H' «U?, 5*4 *l65!lMi'd 
death Selim Bey took this very badly. I therefore ex- 
oflii *l6«UMi £lioi, MHI* 'HR CHsilil t-d Soi 
plained to him that he might consider his sentence an 
5(1* IH * Mill yiMHllHl Ml? o/oi 5*4 '*1=H HUM HI1* 
exceedingly lenient one, as he had narrowly escaped be- 
ing condemned to death, and that his life depended upon 
O MlHWl*l 4HOI 601. <H*l< 5*4 HI* Mlg >-Hl}' 
his keeping quiet. Upon hearing this he completely altered 
Hlio Ml? 513' <13 'H* <H'S4*l *l5d 5*1*1 am aHHlH 
his tone, and acknowledged the justice of his sentence. 
Ml? 6Hi =*3' MWHWi 5*1*3' 63’- Mm 'HHMl 
That night I arrrived Lack at Kampala, to find that 
SCHISHI §4514 Mlg M’ll 343'. '*£ *l*lH*Oi *141 
Captain Macdonald and Dr. Moffat had returned the day 
MimHll 601, *lMm Olili 5UMS *600*1 
1-eforc, leaving Mr. Reddic to resume command of the 
.-tation at Port Alice, where no further trouble was appre- 
*5*15* 5HI 03 HORim <* 45U4Hi HWl*l *13’ 63'. 
hended, the Soudanese having all sworn allegiance to 
(MIH <HIS All? <*l 5lX*lH "101* AHUHIMi <H'*l 0*1 
the Queen on the Koran in the presence of Captain Mac- 
an* 615101 (Mi SHIAH*! iAil 5H* *lSdHi*l *l?l 
donald. Air. Forster had also brought all their arms and 
ammunition round to the landing place of Alanyonyo in 
Ht’Rl Hl’HHloi 5*l*l 8, **d MlHHWi 5*1* 8 $ 
t he mission boat, to be transferred to Kampala. The 
6* (Mi Ml8l HiOlMl'd I'SUHi. Sii 5HI §4514 ^4d 
garrison at. Kampala bad been in a lively state of excite- 
HUO 45114 =1143' 63, *lMm 0*1 Mia' diHllO 
ment on the da}* of our departure for Port Alice, as a re- 
port had conic in that we were being attacked on the 
M3' 63'. =UH MHdll a** 5*4 £§ii*l H1500H OUl 
road. Lieutenant Arthur had accordingly despatched a 
M*l =H* <*153 M*lM m'5U5*Rl min' _|li 4*1 34 
strong reinforcement of Waganda to our assistance. In 
M5UHHlHi 5Hl*l 8. 3o M<1* HM3' a*ia 4SHUO 
reality it was nothing but an instance of a typical 
I’ganda scare. Tbe English missionaries had returned to 
M3' 8. o> cdm'Hl ni'l <H01H 5*1 §4514511 010*1 8 
their station at Namircmbe, having played up right well 
* 5* 8 I 5}5l§liHOi £§il HdnlM §1'§5*1* ofln} 53* 
during our absence, taking their turn at the night wat- 
Sg' 4SHU0 M3' 0*1. 3Hl5i5U*l*l 5iHd£l, *HO Mtl ISHMIMI aHlMHl. 
ches in common with the Government officials. The 

3'oti? A'o It'd s’-HHHl^l 144V. 

51MI m<HlM0Hl^ 3'<Hl?Ol *l5dHl aMIhioh 5do 
*lOHi'A* ROIH 5|5d 6*1 $ 0*511*1 3‘oil?>li SACHIS 
MimHll aHlMMi 8, *rd *^ Hl§HHi Mell oi'lim^A 
Hl»-*l 6g1i. 5Hl'ud HIO Hl§HMi *l5dHl* ^H*l HP*! 
631 ‘f H^** 'IMl "UMHA HIHldl 5(ioi, MIS' 
3'<H'?>li nHd s£. HMl H}44HHIH' 3Hl5lHlOl*l n}»U- 
*1 a*Hl 6*1, **l sil?«d HH',mm 0§1 MIM * 5(1* 
Hlo *10*'* MAcd 5lU*m 4*1 6HI. CHHIAHOlod 
<h"eI>HHO 4*1 Hlu*l 601. HiiAHHl* H16HIH SilllO 
HlHlMlH'l 5HIMHIO *Hoc gMiaSloi Him <*HU4HlO 
4l5U<HlOi 3\l*lMO 5HlSH*l MCHA^IO Hl§HOl S\i 
<Hl5wi *H*l 6*1. SilMSl *IHM StO'SHUMH MCHAmoi 
Hoo oumSiO AlSlO 6151 5015151 HI4 m5(1*1 Smi 
HCMnwi 5*1001 601. *A5Hioe od«0' MlmHilO >(Hl 
Hi«l aHRCH Hl“d, «U!/Wl 5tH4*l J4il5*io MlM*ll?d, 
05H<H(*H, *401 HIHSCH H*'* n}5 n}£ iSIBl Soft Hl'*(l 
631. 5HI H1M3' 5H14H SOHSH 't'iAH*! HlHSl*l §451 
63'. M*l0 OiAlSdMOHl 5H.(S*l JSil5*lO MSI C<'<H 
5(1*' A8MIH HlRHlMi 5Hl*l 6<fl. 3i“lt?Ol '(HHOH 
5UH4 §*lHl Hlo *lOHi'AO *§*143' (5.3' S ft o/}H 
Mi" *1 * OIM51HOI ollil'llHi'lO miCHlHHl. o(6lHOl 
SMI* SMH*1 HICH5( Mi3‘ 63’ I *101 5(HdS aHHlCH 
§4514 Mia Mil, Mm 'doin’ 4*1 3HKH5U*l (Mi*l 
HtliUHlH HI* Hl'MHl'? 51MI 601. HJM5ti CHHiH* Hlo 
*lOHii £14 Htol Mia' OI443' 63’. 5301 OHdfioi 
51MI HJAHHIH ^44 H,ooo 3mCH5U*l ol'S'd SHHl 
SHIOMI 601, n'MIH' HUMIHm *Icl *a*lHl Hl'''>Ml 4H 
^SHHll; V,ooo HI §IM 8. OlMclH 5JHHAH 5UH4 
I*lHl *1* il*Hi OlH*lA 5HR5i 'Hl'Ml 601, 
5HO (Mi*l MlM*llrflo HH* MiS' *s*l *101* om* 
51MI 601. Hl§Hoi SHl£HI?d aA5d <H*l =U5d 6*1 
*01 ■WUCH HlMCHl SfOCHl S1MH*1 oiHloiH 5(1515( Mini. 
*301 OHdSOi*! HlHln- 4*1 aMs HHICHOIO n-*l 6*1, 
*Hl>li 5H4 Oil* £iicd ani*! ** Mlil oro-Ml 6*1- 
Hl§H0i 51IHHIA |5UHHl* 5HI 0(61* J}H*l 6*1. fiO 
anotJCH H§5(R %rtA0l 1,41051515(1 3HOW §41*1 oi'm 
4*1 015*1 6*1- 5HO SilllO nt* 5*1* Oi'fcl M|? 51*1 
6*1 ! HIM* snn- HIA i §4514 M3' 8. *151* 
moMHoi *i5dm* mSi h'oo chi*i (j*i 'o* mu* 
*5*15* HlOlHl §41*1 SlMlil 6*1—SMHlt (i'-S. 

liOH J'HCHg. i}. SHHllHW CSH“i*l4 3*1** 
HilHl) =0'0H HLC-Wt OiOoiHl cllo H»Si =*t'*l y 
'll®, a** M1013' eMl‘uU3’ §1051 5l'il5irt*lHi Si'll 
43'S SHdanlOl >l5UM HIMIHOl v/oHM >3 MlMlHl 
do HRl H}**! 50* 'OMROl H 'UOl'Hi V *1511^1 

IN If. If. M’.-. CONSUL AH COURT AT 

ZANZIBAR. 

PXOH.VFK AXJ> \l)MTXJSTHATl()X. 

Cause No. 3 ol' 1894. 

Notice of issue letters of Administration 

of the estate of Khanmahomed Afawji. 

THE GAZETTE. 

Tnkc notice, that application having been 
: made in this Court by Ibhramji Jafarfi, guard- 
dan of Ismalji Jivanji a miner of Zanzibar 
’fortlic administration with IVill annexed of 
i the Estate of .1 i vanji Jafar] i late of Zanzibar, 
J deceased, the Judge of this Court will proceed 
i to make a decree in the same unless cause be 
I shown to the contrary and appearance in this 
■ respect entered on or before the loth day 
1 of March 1894. 

H.W. de SAUS5IAREZ. 

Asst. Judge. 
IT. If. Consular Court. 

Pursuant to an order of H. AL (tonsillar 
Court at Zanzibar granting- Letters of admi- 
nistration in the estate of the late Khanmalio- 
med Alowji deceased, who died at Zanzi- 
bar on the 29th day of December 1893 all 
creditors and others having claims upon the 
estate of the above-named deceased are re- 
quired to send in writing the particulars of 
their debts, claims, or demands, to Hassum 
Datoo and Dhurumsi Khataoo appointed Ad- 
ministrators on or before the 27th day of Aug- 
ust 1394. 

H.W. deSAUSMAREZ. 

Asst. Judge, 

H. M. Consular Court. 

Zanzibar, 27th February 1894. 

MC-flhl BWlAMktl SRi'Hi 

!s£3Mflt 't'uf? 3 W I 

nnsilct Rrli 

■^^13 •H1-4K <5 ^.9 

rii° H 
fecli cWl 'li/laiA Hc-ft- 
Sl ’SlliSi i^CHl 33} 
ani^ S1 y-4«u ^rwri =hII 
“{!”l3u 'vSlHl l3'HC41 g-'-R « 
4141 H=4l5l MlcUHl 4141 ilRlM 
•43 HWfl 'HctlS ■??} 41/14 4l^441;Hi 

3 Ct^l Clio 3131(1 SHRlilcl 

iilK-fl «ilM4l. 

H. W. de. SAUSJIAEEZ, 

51=4. €»HC-ia. {[ 

^U^.ycWcl oz-icy. 

w'3l'4R Clio -lilfiV. 

IN IT. B. M’s. CONSULAR COURT AT 

ZANZIBAR. 

Probate and Administration. 

Cause No. 4 of 1804. 

^ Notice of application for administration of 
Estate of Jivanji Jafarji late of Zanzibar de- 
ceased. 

j Zanzibar 3rd March, 1804. 
I Note:—The Will above named is now do- 
! posited and open to inspection at tbc British 
Consulate. 

RCdlit MWloWl-fl ACaUHl?^! ?W«1C4? hRiMi 

4013 V 44 XCI'V. 

43rtti 524455 3»1^55c{l 
515-1441 

M ^ ^ M 

i<'3Tj1R4I41 »R4R 554435 mass'd 
41/14114 M45 3l«144l ^1411155 
35443541 413(1 fI@Rl435 v<li3.355i arpSi il3il( 
3JRcv i^l g 4Rcl 4 441 ?4l-i ilWl 41 o 
4R4 yHl4i SHI'® Sit) 4i3J '441431 
4^1 41 SHlSl sRi41 yil"l cl '41014 
4l4klt ^Slll SHlMll. 

H. W. de SAUSMARE/5, 

Sisi. S'HCHM* ifl 

34R(ly444 

^31<4R 41° '3’fl '4R:4 lilW. 

In H. B. M. CONSULAR COURT AT 

ZANZIBAR. 

PROBATE AX]) ADMIXISTKATIOX. 

Cause No. 5 of 1894. 

Notice of issue letters of Administration of 

the Estate of late Bhora Soolamanji Esaji. 

Pursuant to an order of II. M. Consular 
Court at Zanzibar granting letters of admini- 
nistration in the eslate of the late Bhora Soo- j 
lanian ji Esaji deceased, who died at Zanzibar | 
on the 21st day of -February 1894 all credi- 
tors and others having claims upon the estate | 
of the above-named deceased 'are required to | 
send in writing the particulars of their debts, i 
claims, or demands to Buinanji Dhunjibhai I 
Head Clerk If. M. Consular Court, who is| 
appointed Administrator of the said estate, 
on or before the 7th day of August 1894- ; 

II. W. do SAUS1IAREZ. 

Zanzibcr, 7th Ilarch .1894. 

Ttli Maroli 1804 
4C-{l!sl 4141314141 «'3loiR'(l ?1451C4? BRA4i 

1:554141 4013 4 44 

43413 <r/3p.Hli4l54L 34^41455 3J%L55d'l 
4154544 4515414 443 (H'oi^R'dl <Hl«H4, 

43413. ^441435 y4l35 s/omR 4?l 
41° 3.TH1 ^oRIlR TAW 4 il4li 41131 Ml5!!- 
Jll 1541 4dl %4i4d °U/lC4l4 441 'Jf>Himi4 
4C-{lil 4l4l°t4ldl ^!4?lC41 'SlliSl i^Sll 
^Si 344^5(1 ^1414141 3H14 ® 4441 4R14R1 
3H4 oflirnSil (D>5ll4l §441 41411'fl 3{(^jrt 
§41 51 3141 §14 clSllSi 414141 31 3141 C-T“{l4 
44435 H435iH'ir 4>/l41 4144141 =Hlr-(l5i[ 
g 44 41° vSJft 343144 IZliV HH141 illK-fl 
■"11441. 

H. W. de SAUSMAREZ, 
Slat. i'-H5l^. {I 3il433!5 
aHll(l4444 Wt/. 

^oioill 41° \33{l 4114 IZtiV. 

NOTICE. 

We beg to inform you that Mr. W. 
B. Cliarleswortli and Mr. A. L. 1. 
Cliarlesworth have retired from our 
firm, and we luwe transferred to them 
our branch House at Zanzibar of which 
they have had the charge for nearly 10 
years. 

Our business will be carried on in 
the same manner as before and in con- 
junction with the new firm in Zanzibar 
of Messrs. Charleswortk Pilling & Co. 
whose announcement attached is con- 
firmed. 

Thos. 1). .Chauleswokth &Co. 

* ■'H R . 

31444 41° pHl 4114 IflzV. 

"14^«fl •441 =4144141 =414 g i dl° 5.441(1. 
'dl. =4144414 =44 MU Si. SjCH. 41144414 
64lH _4^4i?ll 4141 g =44 5-.41 Si sybi- 
4lldl 4il S= 51l_414 dSil4l 61=441 6cfl ci cl44 
=4ldl g. 641^1 4411 =4144 ?iff»"4 "14 °y'44R- 
dl 31414. 41144414 _dU-(l31 =4d S4dl 414 
4134 ^4 =41 4dl !:44dl dllidl 441 6^1 
513SI i^Si tsijSl. 

5-ltO 3UH4. 3rl. =41354443,31 344 bo 

NOTICE. 

In confirmation of tbc above an-, 
nouncement we beg to inform you that 
we have admitted Mr. William Pilling 
as a partner in our business which will 
be. carried on under the style of 
ClIAULESWOUTH, PiLUXti & Co. ill the 
same manner as heretofore, and in con- 
Asst. Judge. 
junction with Messrs. Thos. D.Charles- 
worth & Co. London. 
II. II. Consular Court, 
1 

CltAliLESWOr.TH PlLLINtc & Co. 

If 
/I 

7 th March 1894 

THE GAZETTE 
SHIXHIJJ a 

av'31411 dl° Till 4R4 tdCV. 

!345ll <M^1 441 Jtac-t 114cli 641 «V^l44l 
MPflSi tot/Si % 6>llSl 64R1 441141 dl° dlC-ll- 
44 dldl'314 41441 3141 g 44 64 =41144414 
dl€4 44 44Mdl4 41>1 4441 4iH44 4R14 
?j5/4 44 445441 4414. 4144. €l. 4R44- 
414 44 i4Mdl 414 S14141 41411. 

44lW til 1 '4Riill 1 JS14 1 dld^lKll 
^'413541 4111 114141 dl° 414 '41414 Hldl 
415941 41441 mil 4144141 g 41ici <n=Sil4 
41i 4j §14 dSuSi lit Aliliwdl 44=dl5lll 
44ldl 441^ 41l:(l 441114111 ’All 4l4 5141. 
5-410 t{l3t3l'5 (411113/. 

5-410 3«H5-4^. '41. =4115H14H1H a»44 

5l. S454. 3HUT. =4llS4H541«l. 
4dl N-fl 64*11 =41144414 ” dldln 44 

54Mdl 4ifl 5111. 

HEIDSIECK’S & Co.’s 
DRY MONOPOLE 

CHAMPAGNE. 

Finest Brand of champagne imported 

into Zanzibar. 

Can bo obtained in cases of 1 doz quarts or 

2 doz pints wholesale from. 

FORWOOD BROS. &Oo. 

Zanzibar 

NOTICE. 

On the eve of my departure from Zanzibar 
I thank you for the manner in which you 
have executed the Contract for supplying 
daily fresh beef and bread to this Royal ship 
Also I am very glad to have to praise you 
for the interest you have shown in providing 
other articles which this Royal ship needed 
during herstuy here. 

The Commander. 

(Sig.) E. Incoronato 

R. Avviso ‘’Staffelta”. 
To the Firm of D. B. Pereira. 
Zanzibar 80th. December 1898. 

Acl punto di.lasciare Zanzibar La riugruzio 
del mode con cui Ella csegui 1'impegno preso 
di provvedere di pane c came gibrnalinente a 
questa Ro. Nave. 
Son lieto anche di poterla cncomieare per 
1’interessamento dimostrato nell eseguire 
proviste cd allri generi cho occorscro a 
quosta Ro. Nave durante la permanenza quid. 
II Conianduntc 
, . (Fir.) E. Incoronato. 

R, Avviso “Staifetta”. 
Alla Casa D. B. Pereira 
Zanzibar 80th December 1893. 

TO LET. 

A House in Kiimgani suitable for 
simp and residence next to old Charlie’s 
house. Apply to Hiniohund Hansaraj 
at Lakhmidas Ladha’s. 

HENRY 8. KING & Co., 

East India, Civil Service, & Colonial. 

Agents & Bankers. 

65, Coknhill and 45, Pall Mall, 

LONDON. 

Represented in Zanzibar by 

FORWOOD BROS. & Co. 

NOTICE. 

The undersigned begs to inform the public 
in general that, he having engaged a large 
commodious and well ventilated building 
called Quitalune belonging to Dr. De Souza, 
is prepared to provide rooms alone or with 
food from first of next month at very mode- 
rate charges. 

There are thirt double rooms, well adapted 
for married or single persons, with baths Ac. 
and broad gallery in front: the house is open 
all sides. 

The table will be adapted to suit all palates 
and food would he supplied even to those who 
ma not live at the premises; fory further 
particulars apply to the undersigned. 

JOAQUTM FREITAS. 

Le soussigne prie d’informer 1c public en 
general que’ aaut lone unc Grande Maison, 
Ires commode at bien aerec appelee Quitaluni 
et appartennant a M. le Dr. De Sousa, il est 
prepare a pour voir des chain hies seulemcnt 
on avec la tabic des le premier du mois sui- 
vant aux prix tres modique. 

11 y a trente chambres doubles et bien 
appropriees a des maries on a uue personne 
senlcment avec des salles des bains Aca., et 
ayant un grand balcon a sa facade. 

La maison et ouverte des touts les cotes. 
La table sera appropriees a touts les gouts 
et la nourritme sera fournic encore a ceux 
que no demeureront pas dans cette maison. 

Pour quelques autres informations address- 

ez vons an soussigne 

JOAQUIM FREITAS. 

FORWOOD BROS. & Co. 

LONDON & ZANZIBAR, 

Always keep a Stuck of the following articles: 

BUILDING MATERIALS. 

Cement in 400 lb. casks. 

Galvanized corrugated Iron 6 ft. x 8ft. sheets. 

„ Ridging and Guttering. 

13 

Planks in all sizes. 
Water-pipes. 

METALS & HARDWARE. 

Swedish Bar Iron 1J” x $.” 
Belgian „ „ 
Spelter (Georges-Hiitte). 
Sheet zinc. 
Leadpipe. 
Lead. 
Keg steel. 
Saws and Files. 
Cutlery. 
Spikes and Nails (various sizes). 
Jembies. 
Shovels. 
Kettles. 

PAINTS, OILS Ac. 

Tar. 
Soap, Red and Blue mottled 
Turpentine. 
Linseed Oil. 
Driers. 
White zinc (Hubbuck’s.) 
Paints in all colors. 

WIRE. 

Iron 1 
Brass > In usual Guages. 
Copper ) 

GLASSWARE. 

Soda water tumblers. 
Lamp Chimneys. 
Crockery ware. 
Sheet Glass. 

LIQUORS. 

Bass’ Beer ) M. B, Foster and Son’s 
Guinness’ Stout. ) „Buglo Brand” 
Psehorr Beer 
Grimms’ 
Antien Export Beer. 
Dewar’s Weisky. 
Usher’s „ 
Haig’s ,, 
Gingcralo. 1 
Sodt water. 51 11 Fostor & 'Sou9’ Ld 
Tonic water. ) 
German Hocks. 
Champagne. 
Burgundies. 
Clarets. 
Brandies. 
Eau—de- Cologne. 
Ottar of Rose 
Orange Water: 

PROVISIONS. 

Esbensen s Butter. 
Anglo Swiss Milk. 
Tea. 
Sugar. 
German Biscuits 

SUNDRIES 

Rising Hope” Tobacco. 
Bear and Sou’s „ 
Smith’s Glasgow „ 
La Cubana Cigars. 
Cigarette Papers.—Clay Pipes. 
Wrapping Paper. 
Gold Braids. 

14 

THE GAZETTE. 

7th March 18} 

OUTWARD AND HOMEWARD EUROPEAN MAILS 
1 during march  

OUTWARD FROM EUROPE. 

HOMEWARD TO EUROPE. 

STEAM Eli. 

IL1NE. ' DATE DUE, 

STEAMED- 

LINE : DATE LEAVl.W 

IT lie ^5i\3ct tc 

♦ 

Kanzler 

D.O.A.L. Mar. 7 

Sindh 

M.M. Mar. 8 

FOR Z AYN Z I I >Af v A^aSTD EA.ST 

Java 

Ava 

 ill. I. S. N. Co .... 57 

11 

Kaiser 

 D.O.A.L. „ 14 

Vnl fl Nn 111 

a %\)t 

M.M. 

30 

Java 

... ,|B. 1. R i. H. Co ....! 5? ^ 

FOR ZANZIBAR AND EAST AFRICA 

rxwn ANNAO 

Lords. He said that the state of Egypt was peace- 
ful but in view of recent events great Britain’s 
vigilant supervision would be necessary for some 
time to come. 

3 <t * ui ui 

rtl= isHl HiV'-t l<r&v. 

<HVU y'-H'y <Ul S&i} cl RlS t'F.’y aiijl *uUt 
uwain 5 Rflywyi y'ot'yyi «> 
•taj'41 H Hi£ SC-GlHl 8. 

SlKx'HSi Sly. 41361 8. 

54^41 ’'RIF ftihl Su’Aii tfl Ittli 
y? <isClyR 'Hrw ^hwHI ystwi i-UuiVT 
=iai a4l's yll 8 Sul 

tfl SiF-lii cWl A 8. 

5li«l »TO'l’l'A5llW<ll nyy Hlo 

Ml <41 SlWt'R'H s>. 5u hnsiHi 
WROiti s. 

Ill'ftoi '"Urt swi SJJ4 • Silt ghwyiyt 
'(GUcU Uiciaww^ •ttfl ^5|I 
Sir ?5t ing yna Hilii «l4t. ^ <SW3«t Ritl 
ys «IR eLWl Riqi ^wsi M-R'a iortih 
<aMW 'll?! swuT ats? hRiwir 4iyi? Si 
i-ftuiv-t wihiih iitjil 'tiysKi iia SSu sicim 

*1*11. 

Hlo y'H'iGft dw ufltsimwi 

Rio <:Hl R«y icbe. 

yH 8. 

n.’S 8. 

Mlo 4u. Hlo stoa 

8th March 1894 \ 
Mr. Gladstone is laid up in bed with a feverish 1 
chill. Mr. Herbert Gladstone succeeds Mr. Shaw 
.Lefevre. 
The Portuguese are preventing the building of , 
the telegraph between British Zambesi ami Tete. | 
The British gunboat Mosquito fired on the Por- j 
tiiguese whereupon the Governor of Quilimaiie star- ; 
ted for Tetc with gunboats. 
Ma jor Madden stormed ami burned the stockades 1 
of the village of Tamlmr. A combined attack on . 
the Todisalahs stronghold Goajur is expected to 
take place to day. 

9th March 1894. j 
At the Anniversary dinner of the Colonial Ins-J 
titute Sir Hubert Jeruingham in his speech propos- j 
ing the Chairman’s health described Mauritius as a 
plucky little Colony. 
Lord Twccdmouth lias been made Lord Privy | 
seal ud th a seat in the Cabinet and Mr. Herbert! 
< iiadstone Commissioner of works. ! 
A bomb exploded outside the Italian Chamber | 
in Rome, smashing the windows and damaging the j 
houses in the vicinity. Five people were injured ‘ 

Uth March 1894. 

Sarnyang was found deserted and was burnt and 
Fodisilah is a fugitive. The war is now over. 
The Queen’s speech states that the friendly 
relations with Foreign Powers continue. 
Negotiations are being carried on with Russia 
regarding the Central Asian question which is 
proceeding with the mutual confidence and good- 
will of both countries and an early settlement is 
expected, 
The result of the enquiry into the Warina Col- 
lision is anxiously awaited but Her Majesty is con- 
fident that such deplorable occurrences will be 
examined with a calm and dignified temper befitting 
two great nations. 
Home Rule is not referred to but the speech 
states that full and adequate provision will be 
made for the defence of the Empire. 
At a meeting of the Liberal Party Lord Rose- 
bery declared that he adhered absolutely to Home 
Rule and to the gist of Mr. Gladstone’s last speech 
in the House of Commons against the House of 

5>ruM 'RR di y-y dl=3 Ei=i' ror- 
RlR aii 'RAislH At 8. y? 
aflcflAt RR’hii tyjs |ill ri8 yR"Ui aij 4414(1- 
S-sri sir^rr Sa wri yis Syiyi 6. 

-RSR RACIi s4l CUR<RR RlRAlSl ili 
HhyiRiiRi SURn-R ’/lACiiyR yyc-u Ri-ft =ju5' 

uu4ft RP>-yi 8. 
§R4il ARRi 5(<l =JURll 8. 

dlo RlRy Rtfiv. 

sihidiyy tirrUa 'riiruhr yR^Rdl 
RK-tlRlfl CiRilydi RIR li'RRi ^R-ftyg-H •JUtlRflyRI 
=H4 RU3 R13 RIR-yiR 8 ERR A(II Rl'(R4U=3' 
R'l'RRl SrIJI 8 Ifto (JRiRRi 3cRdR A'RltLRR 
HR4Ri yyi 8. 

?iiRZ ia4lRft«i, sUri i<u -Hi-y yyi 8 »ir xuir 

^IR -utlS dilSU'RR RKYy RlQUdl «ll§R S 13^1411 
4lihl cWl !Rl4lSil Rpft SRR *URiyiRlRl RRR 
34RU41 huiyi 8. yiy ruririr <s»4 y<I 8 S> 
Rlic-U SiAR RRiJ^UR RWHIRI 5Hl0<il 8. 

Id+h MARP.H 1 Rf)4 

whereof one is believed to the culprit and was ac- 
cordingly arrested. 
A Parnellite Manifesto states that Mr. Gladstone’s 
resignation is the outcome, of a scheme to shelve 
Home Rule and that the Parncllitc party have no 
confidence in Lord Rosebury. 

10th March 1894. 
Mr. Gladstone is doing well and his health is 
better. 
A native reports that the expedition against the 
Abors was forced to retreat after two days fighting, 
One detachment of thirty men commanded by a 
British officer was completely destroyed. 

Zanzibar. 14th March 1894. 

REUTER’S TELEGRAMS. 

London 7th March 1894. 

Relief parties are being prepared. 

The French press is highly gratified at a speech 
made by Lord Dufferin yesterday evening in Paris 
in which hedweltjon the growing friendly intercourse 
and esteem between England and France and depre- 
12th March 1S94. 
cated paltry quarrels such as those arising about 
Gonjor the stronghold of Fodisilah was found 
Africa and Siam. 
I 
deserted and was burnt by the Bluejackets. It is 
The Right Hon. H. Fowler has accepted the post 
believed that he has gone to Sarnyang on which vil- 
of Secretary of State for India. 
lage the West Indian Regiment is marching to 
Sir W. Vernon Harconrt has, been selected as the 
attack. 
Liberal leader in the House of Commons. He still 
The Calcutta Xew Tariff Bill has been passed. 
holds his office of Chancellor of the Exchequer. 
It imposes a general five per cent duty on all im- 
The right Hon. J. G . Shaw Lefevrc succeeds Mr. 
ports including silver. 
Powler as President of the Local Government 
A Manifesto issued by general Joubert urges 
Board. 
the Transvaal Burghers not to emigrate into 
The Dnke of Devonshire speaking at Yeovil on 
Masiionaland as they would be thereby betraying 
behalf of the Unionists promised that no factious 
their country and assisting Mr. Cecil Rhodes to ex- 
.opposition would be made to the government hut 
tend the British Empire and stamp out the Tran- 
that they would bitterly oppose Home Rule. They 
svaal which their fathers’blood had freed from the 
were in no hurry to displace the government if 
British yoke. 
Home Rule was shelved and if they considered 
The Committee of the French Chamber has ap 
measures for protecting the financial interests 
proved additional credit of one million francs in 
of the country and strengthen the Xnvy. 
order to reinforce the garrison at Diego Suarez and 
Reunion by GOO men. 
Latkii; The Abor Expedition is safe and the 
anxiety concerning it is thus allayed. 

vlCH (dCH^lC-i. 

anJ*!. pHril yWlRl <u ° I SMi'tlRl 

'hrium-t ■■■A "R* 5h.A10^Ur=4. 

mtHl 

aRlHl 

Joft. anitf. ^>(1 
! Siw.Sl'l.J. 
..Jurist, aRM. 

Wtl 

SU* „ 

I SiCH. 

“ T-WHd ” feSi =-Hd '-mmm 4MW MlsandiRl, d yu. isvfl 

SMdRR S. 

NATIONS. 

FINE CATTLE 

Imported regularly. 

Fresh Stores of Flour 

HOTEL ANGLETERRE 

ZANZIBAR . 

Thia First Class Hotel which has been bnij 
specially for Passengers from Europe, and - 
ed up with every European comfort, is, wit: 
out doubt, the best in Zanzibar. 

The cuisine is a specialty, as the Proprietor 

himself iakescare of it. 

LADIES’ DRAWINGRO OMi 
LIBRARY IN THE HOTEL 
Large Saloons for Public and r 

Private Parties 

FIRST CLASS BILLIARDS. 

r i a x (>. | 

Only the best of Liquors kept. 
CHARGES MODERATE. 

I. GOLDSTEIN, Proprietor. 

&e., &c.. 

E.&,J. BURKE, Li) 

ALWAYS ON HAND. 

Why does 

ESBENSEN’S 

BUTTER 

e*o-m£.LtLa^~ At. 

tJL** AoJtJU^jL Ul. £.S\ 

Because, 

it is quite pure and natural 
Butter, without any artificial 

mixture whatever. 

DUBLIN. 

LAWSON’S LIQUEUR WHISKY 
BURKE’S 550 FINE OLD IRISH WHISI 
‘‘Garn Kirk” finest Scotch Mai 

"NONPAREIL” FINEST OLD TOM GIN 

Whisky 

BASS’S LIGHT BITTER ALE 
GUINNESS’S EXTRA STOUT 

RJIAPSODIA 

(a new mineral tonic water) 

A consignment of tkse goods has just s 

! rived, and can be obtained from 

SOLE AGENTS FOR ZANZIBAU. 

FORWOOD BROS &. CO., 

! 

FORWOOD BROS. & 00^ 
Agents, Zanzib 

Finest value in the market 
HOLE IMPOKTUKS OF THIS WELLKNOWN 

liKANl). 

FORWOOD BROS. & Co., 

Zanzibar. 
William Sanders & Co 

ZANZIBAR. 

BAKERY & BUTCHERY 
NAVY CONTRACTORS’ 

& 

SUPPLIERS TO SHIPS OF ALL 

