HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 

Month. 

Date 
Feb. 26 
„ 27 
„ 28 
March. 1 
„ 2 
„ 

Morning 
h. 
3 
0 
6 
0 

00 
2-3 
3L 
20 
30 
28 

h. 

Afternoon 
m. 
41 
9 
37 
6 

51. 
t 
A.Lt- P AGNEW.R.N.E. 

EXCHANGE. 

Pori, Officer 

CHARTERED BANK. 

Sank demand drafts on London. 

Rs. a. p. 

Wednesday, Veb. 20.; 18 ; 9 

Per £. 

Thursday, 
Friday, 
Saturday, 
Monday, „ 
Tuesday, Jan. 26.! 18 i 10 j 

21.1 18 
22.1 18 
23. 18 
25.! 18 

I 

' RUPEES 500 REWARD. 
Whereas a murderous assault was 
committed at about 7-30 p. m. on the 
evening of Thursday the 21st. February 
by some person or persons unknown 
on a Khoja, named Mitha Jesa. The 
above reward will be paid to any person 
giving information to the police which 
will lead to the conviction of any person 
or persons implicated in the affair. 

Bv Order ofH.H. The Sultan, 

Lloyd Wm. MATHEWS. 

First Minister. 

}<> Moo) j 'JdlM. 

VhMHI'mI MRRl <11° M'tMl 

^U) 

Mlol A MlCHM 
MiCM! 'kh! 
'Mlctsl kVil ^rll 3HI 
kiHHi 3>mi 

hU •HF-M.rt kVAYHl 

el'd ’"{OR w "kVj' 

Moo)^ 

THE GAZETTE. 

AVIS. i 
Lavente aux eiicheresde la propriete 
de Tounnawa ilo de Pemba) prove-j 
nant do la succession de fen M. Pierre, 
ifJottoni. est remise an samedi 6 Avril 
! prochain. 

NOTICE. 

The Sale by public auction ol the 
property situated at Toundawa in the 
Island "of Pemba belonging to lato M. 
Pierre Cottoni is postponed to Satur- 
day the 6th of April next. 

^H“tl AWHl 'JWil'U vtWdl 7ll= Tt? 
cuo -iffi --hk 41441? m? aandl tmawi =ai- 
aji 5.   
NOTICE. 

ESTATE or THE LATE J. BELL SMITH. 

All persons having claims upon the 
above Estate are requested to forward 
them with all vouchers and particulars 
to the undersigned within fourteen days 
from the date" of the publication of this 
notice. 

J. R. W. PIGOTT. 

Acting Administrator. 

NOTICE. 

THE BOMBAY AND PERSIA STEAM; 

NAVIGATION COMPANY 

The above Company’s Steamer Nadcri from 
Calcutta is expected to arrive here on the 2nd 
prox. she then leaves for Bombay via Muscat 
on the 8th March, 1895. 
For freight and passage apply to. 

HASSUM IIATTO. 
Agent. 

N. B. Consignees of Cargo are requested 
to take delivery of their goods within 24 
hours after they are landed, otherwise the 
Agent, will not be responsible for short deli- 
very or other clains. 

'41 StWH alii NJtfflaHl 

HtflaWK £lo 

SHI ilo-ti “HlSlfl” i'dtrlffi SlHidl i 
=Ha? ul= >r'*{l HUH SHlffi H1!?! iJW Ml'Jl q=- j 
cl-rr H?lSrt qd’d 3i“U! Viiit 
S' SuSh HK4 SItItIHAl -H’aqi HUlMw?, 
5V3 SlH d=4l5i ffi5! 4ldl 4I4U4 udl i 

CU.-t 5141. 

Hiaui «i4 qw Cum -.thsu », 
Sustl hM =HI4S(l *U5t qiJlSuu qc|--H‘P 
S4l»d s'!14 ft S oflSh'TlI Sh?*!! chwA'h au?w 
and Mid Midi'll HU? I Hi HUH StdV-U M'Jl =.v 
saisui ?4iM1h chiJ tcMi, Hffi ?.i huh edvffi “lit 
HlSidl Hi -H'141 (t<? -.141 Hl'HS (ihl W4UHSU 
?§4i' Hdl. 

Si»V-2. 

February 27, 1895. 

H41 J134U dU ?tHl |“U.4l^lHl 3h w'H’Hl- 

?Hl 4441 H’sfl? 4)14?IH 2?4lui 4<U4l 5 
qidi S-Vui H4d 0|^'. ?ldHl -HU K-U- 
iH MUl HTH 444 >4M "lioi 4? 
yHUlh 441 disiffi MldWl M? d?$ 4iai i?dl 
4'Hrt CiHH HI4I oU. HHffi 
^dl. 44441 udM T4l,4 sioil 4ld s?dl ^ISldl 
i?4l S?-M §4? Mlil 144 4? =Hr4l C4UU H41W 
'ini' mil Kltl wiilHl 4HUI S4i HiQ 4il|41 
iilT ttMl4U. 44 yHrt USX Mi §4? HHlH'l cj- 
id 4iSH4i gfl HlJl Mild dii HUll. Hlli 
n-HlH @4i iMdUH qfl 4iMl tin SlHCi §4ld 
Hi MiitquMl M'tti UV.i 4414-5,41 d-fl q?d 
ilU4ti s<l. Ml vAii veil §i|i 4'Ml fid di 
-4'Hdl rSUifl 4lM. 

441 iiffilil SiH iiildl HU Mlil ii4ldl Hdl 

414 Cii^tCiidl Hldui "4 dii 4^ £ HiH 
ft rtuiffi Chi §d4'ffi §lr-fl SidSi. 

(‘■Kill n-ill SHUHldi diiHl ^Htfl iWUilS ttdl 

d4l yulHHlCiHl i*iui <H4dlHl it? -44441 ‘H'-fl 
MitHd ?idl.) 

441 iHl4li hMuHI '41-4 WUldHl Cls^lH 
44lil'i 4Ml^=iid i PH ill 'tlHilCH c/HiSt Hltiqi 
4H1451 itl-'i 4)1? Mldlffi UHluffi Hiu 4134 
4$ihi gusuMl 3Ki uiHlui ft M -hii s(l4u til 
d4l MlcilHl <4=4144 ill?, USS UUtl JiH&UUH 
u-tCi MiitqUHiffi uuiqil ?il. 

anM uiuHH' ft S Ml5(lyH 4il «/tMl ft 4>lu 
-Hlill ft S' qirtui qfl uiiHli CiiMl dffi 4lil 
HH SiSiHU iPHilM 414 4?tiliui 44l4il. 

n-mi44IH 
S4i> ft ? 4UiCl SlUHl UiHU UlH'i'd 
44?t<Hi Wl-H Hi m'UiiSSS -JSJUUjHi <1441 =hM 
|iK4Hl 41-1 MilHAHl U‘.dl55 tlM-.'i 5td idH'JUe 
m-HiiSS' EJISUBj U?j 4151 4l»5U llitiHl 414 .?- 
5ilS qi'U 'HIM iAHli dl-iilHl UU'll MlUffi IS? 
4?iHl 4M UltidHiftH 441 ft, HiHU iis 
-HH CUuiiffi 1H4iilHi ltd! ='HH *44 ^Hi Ml- 
=4UHl UldHi '•41HSIHH aic/dl sfCKlidlMl MldlHl 
-HPHl «4 JK-uMl itMl. I41C4H1 Hi -vuiiSJSHl 
Ci4 ?i?l SlAlHi ==H4l0l HiW 4(41 UiHliH d Ui- 
-ftdl HoftilHl 4^ HU CilMl (tdl UiHli 9ii4li, 
it 'Kl-t ili wUilSSJ 4131 ipjll 'Hid-*' 'Mitid- 
HitlH 441 ltdl =HH t4i-V *44544Vsi 44144141 
541441 lidl. UiHliH 5H4C44V54 Mi(i=4lt4Hl 21- 
il41 ^lli? UtHl'S nKll ‘Hid 4il.--?44'i F:.;. 
die 3s - ti - iV, 

aHf.efHl afle Mt»t 
Ml f.a'Hlil—441 yflil’i ui?-1 CUd -otiii 
,41-11 -AUfldl 54lM4lH iffiil =HH d4lil "Klo 
?l4ilta -iH’-tll 511H4THIH Ulltiiqtlss-fl ft'HI 41- 
eiMit’-i ilspi 4Mi til iff. 541^ $ 41 Cldi-jiK; 
4ii CiutUd iidl-fl Kl<l4l 414^4 414 CitUHl 
i?Hiti M4 id. Wl. *4 KlMl ittfl. Cl 
Si'HUui OIS MiiT MvilU^l MMl 4Ml ltdl, 5HH 
Mlil *44541=141 d4l Uliifl, (it-£ 41§l>lSH Citu 
--iliflCii-fl 5uiS'Hl<Hi5fl ‘Kl^ciil Cl !d=(l4i -flit-ill 
41H d*ll Hie ?14ilW4 41H *414414 M'ft o4 
Ittfl. ‘Htll'HHl 5iil= 'HIH41 Mii5ii iiHiti -VM Hie 
.?l4ilS2-fl iqtflui *4? if =41(41 QUHUl Kiq' itn', 
i>ui 4=415.1 4iil SiU4lH Hie 4l4ilS5 flHiU=H 
iiiili-fl due/ Ci'44liflCil-fl IH-lftifl i!4l-fl 'fi- 
eld 5JU‘lfl ittfl. CMi(lU4U Citlf, d4l lfj54i-fl 
4'Hl Hie ilHilSjCi itiSUH KlMifl Uetfl 4U 
’Hlffid dUe/ Cl il,tiM Ciiddl 14UI, 14’Si -‘HH 
iffiiilHl ip'l ids' S' ill? dq' ft d Ulft ill=4lifl 
hi iiefsi CiiufiM Hie cMM Minin' <ui4Ui n? 
Kiq Itn Hie 4l4ilS? flHillCl dHl t?ui S4?li 
41H41 4'Jl 4lHiil4l<l 54b Hle/C4il (HVHlid 4b 
cfl.—?4il4 Fj-i. die 3o - ti - it. 

FOR ZAAjSTZIB^R E^ST AFRICA. 

Vol. IV No. 162] ZANZIBAR, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 6, 1895 [PRICE TWO ANNAS. 

REUTER’S TELEGRAMS. 

Tianzibar 21th February, 1895. 
The latest Bulletin regarding Lord Rosebe- 
ry’s heath states that he is suffering from ex- 
treme insomnia, his illness interferes ith the 
progress of the House. 

forts at Weihaiwei. 

The Japanese are actively razing the land 

! 
There was a debate last night on the motion 
of Mr. Everet in favour of a bimetallic confe- 
rence. During the debate Sir William Har- 
couri admitted that the silver question was a 
grave one, but he was personally convinced 
that the mouometallists doubted the utility of 
a conference, as the various interests of the 
Powers would be certain to clash, and he rlecli- 
raed to subject the British currency to the 
mercy of a foreign Power, or the control of 
an international committee. The other Powers 
were welcome to combine. Sir William Har- 
eourt only accepted the motion as it did not 
pledge the Government to Bimetallism he was, 
however, ready to join in any exchange of 
views. 

The Everett motion was finally adopted 

without a division of the House. 

The Russian Foreign Ministership has been 

offered to Baron de Staal. 

58/A February, 1895. 

The English papers rejoice at the prospect 
of Baron de Staals nomination as he is a cau- 
tious statesman and a lover of peace. 

Lord Rosebery is suffering from continued 
insomnia but otherwise his health has impro- 
ved. 

The Times regrets the result of the debate 
yesterday evening as it shows a weakening 
resistance to bimetalism in the House of Com- 
mons. 

Sir Hercules Robinson succeeds Sir H. Loch. 
The Khedive reviewed the Cairo garrison 
yesterday and afterwards complimented Major 
General ’Sir Fred. Walker on the effeciency 
of the troops. The Khedive wore the order of 
the Bath. 

A Tim<; telegram from Pekin states that 
Likung Chang has had three audiences with 
the Emperor and was well received. He has 
agreed to go as peace envoy, the Powers advis- 
ing to that effect 

1th March 1895. 
The Japanese are evacuating the advanced outly- 
ing positions at Weihaivrei and Kinghai. The bulk 
of the army has sailed for Talicnwan. 

Prince Lobanoff succeeds the late Mons de Giers. 
The Welsh Disestablishment Bill has been read 

a first time without a division. 

2nd March 1895. 

Lord Rosebery’s health is improving; 
A pilgrim train plunged over a precipice 
near Mexico and a hundred people were killed 
and ninty injured. 

In the Reichstag the Government strongly 
insisted on the necessity for increasing the 
number of Cruisers to enable Germany fittingly 
to protect her trade and subjects and to 
watch her interests notably in China and 
Japan. 

The cost of four Cruisers was largely voted. 

4th March, 1895. 
On the afternoon of Sunday 25th February 
15,000 Chinese attacked I Taichung but were 
repulsed after severe fighting losing 200 kil- 
led. The Japanese loss was 275. 

The Czar is suffering from influenza and a 

sore throat. 

At the London County Council elections 
the moderates have gained largely thus leaving 
the progressive party with only a minor’s 
majority instead a majority of 50. 

Congress refuses to vote the sum in settle- 
ment of the Behring sea arbitration award. 
Senator Sherman spoke strongly Against the 
refusal as tending to destroy the principal of 
arbitration. 

Boston and others Cities are sending relief 

for the acute distress in Newfoundland. 

There have been repeated serious riots or- 
ganised by students in St. Petersburg 
The Cossacks dispersed the. rioters many 
being seriously injured. The riots’were semi- 
political favouring liberalism. 

A writer of the Debats whose pseud on von 
is Harry Alis has been killed m a duel with 
swords by Captain Lechatclier on account of 
a personal quarrel. 

It has transpired that the Duehes d’Uzes 
has contributcdthrec million .francs to .the 
Boulangists funds repayable when • Royalists 
arc restored. 

j It is stilted that the Comte de Paris gave 
four millions. 
! A Balloon equipment is to be sent to 
Madagascar 

Onituary. The ex Khedive Ismail Pasha. 

5th March, 1895. 
The parleying as to the relative powers and 
credentialso f the Chinese envoys makes favor- 
able progress and it is proposed that the 
envoys should first meet at Simonsake and 
if the credentials are approved to transfer 
the negociations to Hiroshima. 
. The Japanese in Manchuria are advancing 
and are forcing the Chinese to retreat North- 
ward. 

The Italians have built a telegraph froni 

Kassala to Massowah. 

Mr. Morley has introduced a Bill to which 
was read a first time to amend the Irish Land 
(act in accordance with the proposals adopted 
; at recent; committee meeting, 
j The general principal of the Bill will be 
! to protect tenant in ownership of improve- 
, ments and reduce the term for fixing fair rents. 

3 Ct 5 41 ctl H. 

54H2H Clio ii'Hl ^Hiild t5iM. 

5llii iil4?Hl 5j54l?tcl 5ffii 'HolM o/Ulloq i 
4'41H 4'i«l4i ?i£ 4UI '(ii[li ii4l4l H ==Hl4il. 
*4H H14ili' fl§i iili 6 5 ^Kcfl ?l5i iil Hl- 
CtHl 54i?iHl rt4li* 5iHli ft. 
54HiH4i i4i4 HFHill-d =HS5-(l 41 o flilffiSil 
tlJI H14HI faticl-fl *44=8ii5= i ct=Q3 H4qu 4lJ ft. 
(SHllTHl ili-flH 414 HiilHl ii'HlHl-tl ilci 4C 
ft 5114 4°00's=l54iHl s'i ??4l4i =4loMl ft. 
i qlQl 3154? iiufl ftlil 0<l4cil iM =445441 *41145- 
4l4i H =4l4ii. ' 
Si5! ■'HlrtHl “il«»il” HI 'ut=Hi 4HI ctli 4li- 
I iM o/UllM ft i", iliMlill Hlci =4Sltf Ml?544lHl 
; Clo/'lft/ 0<t4lHl5l i‘i ft. 

Hl4*li Hfl 4lit HiliJ HclHl Mill *414 
ild ?i4l 41^ 4H-41? “ii-A ir/*4l5c/'’ '‘tflas*HH” 
|*HH “4iii” *44 4o/i 3511?. »i??lH5r2Hl yi- 
isiil §=54 Slyry-fl ^231 Hl3544l4i 'Hl-d i^cft H- 
1*41*4 yHrt ail’d. ?=U ffi'SltHHl =A'f54l 4i §4?ll 
I ?4\ I415II nD'-Ml ft. 4Hili. y-A SiMlio/Hl 54- 
Ua-A A54i *44 51 145415.(1 4li<lt' 441 ft . SlM 
Kiy o/‘4Hl 4=U ft. 

mo ^oMl -oir-uol ihh. 

n'lilWWi Mlo^ S uflSt-Si (SlHliJ >.14cU •isfl. cin-fl 
■ouS-lt ifiaA caMl'flSl O/HW- 

jiH^i Pic-t'fH «u3\ s. 

tl?ct i\ 8. 
i'Hivy hiT, Hlo s?- 
■“UR-rt 4<l, cl <l?l Olij cti^U li'fl cl 
^WCHl <l?l 5iiacti yo -MIojih i4l?S(J m-iilL'-l^' 
i c-Rrtt -si'-ua ofon? mo Hisll 6 Si "013 
6 Ma SHStvyrn wtHiysi ^lai. ^icui^i ^i^ict 
♦t <lj ^ tfl?! ?iHrfl '•Hlrtfl S^otwl OOU'H 
8. 4i=.'a 5 ci*ft c4?i mja tic/iiHi mi=»i Sis 
JiiSfl <13-1 >1'J 

C5l(ill sicilit Hl?Sl ?lr/Sln ^-lltfl'i ?§ Slin=u 
sMUlm «s>i n»iiiS ^siiiiJii «hih 

Sh s^mii y? msCl'-'iii iiuiiim ^s? >i^t. 

'WIm' no/111 (H«i Sissi sin. oii'i aiciBi nti 
*Gslvi siff Su-t a«iM^l licil •Uft disu viii 
'H3 TisCl^il ilRifi 411 Si^Gcl S^C-t sfl. 4JU- 
4i■<! wnini, Hio SK^iHi jvmici <13u 
»ict =l»l? IRII? «i^ 8. 

3?li<im iGi HHlctiim Siiiji bi^k il-ui- 

4H11-11 4(14111 8. 

mo =cHl 'OiomG ici'i. 

5iii'i-in-»ii=Jici<i nm<\ nuias >111' iIoK-dn 
m^li 13SII «iajii 8 sUiei i rtiiii in-c.PtlciHt 
V-M 8 i>in ji<« =<3 a 45 S." 
<li<Ht i-otcisfl S'n t\ smi-iisfl 5iiW 

Siaiijn 8 Mill cl4i<l clWllct '-to <ici yi<l 8. 
iTo 3l< 4il«i4tl C1S31? <CuSi 4J11H<1 ystwi 
»i3il 4i<H3t »ltS -UHi-ft <1}HtU m-ll»li 4>ll< 8. 
il mi “naG-n" scions oictciiH 6. 

"(liy'i 8. 

W §*lG «lS'fl 0/411 yo (JOiJjSClOl ^l- 
;iar sici vii^i c-t?s?<l smui! -a.fli ct- 
^ «t^s3< iis: sm- 
IJI ci m'i vio/1 c.-'RH y? S?ils iis?^ m- 
Hl?fl su'd ii.cfl. an iC-ilSi “lii" !(i sjij '1- 
<l< ii^l. 

nsic-n “4i£»5i” m mini wi^imni 
aHi=3' 6 '$ Sinnn 511=1 nil! «i, <1 (j4iin.ii 
nw (net i<l j<l =iin nnn 51151 a-mnsu in ini 
jcli. Wlm 5i"=ii4{l 5i<ij =Hinni!(i n- 
<jm =<<=(1 nG «nin cii?l ji mil 8. 

mo psft nw niH. 

<l(i-i4iB-<ij ann mnoiiiJ vticWi 82: am- 
=l« min »'|v.i<u <5si nig << 8. <54ini 
nijXi <ni=i cKlnnin c/ni niT njuiini ti'i-ai- 
3'&- 
*H nmas =n5' 6. 

nimi =ilo <1. sjaiiindl cr=ll5i <1.51 eiialnis 

<l3H net Him <=15 <451 ^l5iaH5i4i(=4{ly 

n44 o(l< njidnii ninmni ajuo^ 8. 

m= 545 niiai i44n. 

5ll4 etoflilet ^Hidl mn 8, 

~ iiijdHi 4i«<i', 84A nKl mm<3'5it4fl anm- 
anfl^Set^l nil o>ifl too nniiii niiji nixit ann 
<0 < >i(5 6. 
_afln -mninm viyn "indlm <nii 
elm lanetm <kh ninnm mT nnmi <- 
yiimdl =n=uni <tii 515415 -15^ ovinn nti- 
<Hi4=u wiiiinmi anmij' ju'. 
'in <4ibrm njiup! -01,51 c,^ nnn 

THE GAZETTE. 

Clio V«fl 11451 'tci'-l. 

?“i?-lliO 411>1<1 dio ViHlSi Mlisiil silijwi 
l|4H=l'»oi 11= ad-iiSiiSi jshSi St<il (4cil HUl y- 
Mci a-iiij >1=11 naq (jsied a^ion (jfli 
'ii-tlS'llrll 4. SO =11141=1 ajj^ o^lllKlsWl 4HS'l =11=111 
=Kl lictl. 

3?(1<1>U ?l(4"t=ilg mci<l =(1=11* g. 
Sifl'ai «aA3i«i Simsm 4?r-ii=ii ani'iqi'ft ^s=i 
■MWI? i?=iin Iwiiw -u Hi5 8 Sinia ?i==w 
ra <13.< wmsi sfl c/uiiMj i 5Hi!fl a =115^, 
-tOl <Hia(l -ii4 8, 

MnreE 6, 189-j. 

• s a Sqfitri from Bombay was 
sighted here ou the evening of the lst"ln5 
tant. She anchored off Grave’s Island and 
then came into harbour early next morniim 
She exponenced exceptionally fine weather 
throughout the whole of the voyage and came 
into Zanzibar about five days before her time 
Her passenger list was "as follows. From 
-Bombay for Port Elizabeth Hiss Currie. For 
Zanzibar His Exeellencv Bishop D.A. Barosso 
of Mozambique, Padro A, Pereira, F.N. (le ga. 
and Mr. Faria, besides seventy one deck. From 
Mombassa Mr. Parker. 

•3 siS-t'/.i-j =ii(S£ y'SA iiaain «ii^a sj^ 

"do't ?li43>li<l =1SS iiisaami aaiH 8. 

faUlt’-daHlSi ?=t«il oi'Jr-il =i'i <145=1 =15=1=11 
'iiV'ii5 «ii< 6. «iui=iiSli5 «tisa Jiysy «tiS 
RSlfl mlWi 8 =H^ 51(41 IS =l=l'5lSlGl< (S'* 
mT 8. 

^ 'mi-fl^iaia, <1=1 4114(51 4^ * 0(4514 

Sell il'i s'lci'l 5i414S4(laH5 511;l =aK=[l 
S55<1 is'd! rt<l 5U;1 aiiJ sMi i-4^ a,,,- 
IS rta =114J1 apasil. 
_ ^3 y'waw 6 i 5=1=1 30 aivt s- 
5lrS (^?i»ts554 s 4 =,i 541(541 [ r; sjji) ^ *1 [i-J 4[s/ 
i/iaia >ii!5i aai^ ^ <aiSi nig ainnnia T5- 
=13 8. 

5^3 "(411-51=11 =>115 8 S aii4fl5i 

afUi aiii^ili 6. 

=H=l55S5=li <555 511=1 C14< qol^i yima 

»lis«i»ii sHinut 8. 

(nail'll '459i'5i Si^in (o=i=it5ja nuu. 

LOCAL NEWS. 

The Zanzibar Govt s s lim-aua left for Mom- 
bassa, and lamu on the 27th Instant. She 
had as passengers for Lamu. Judge Cracknall 
and Messrs Wilson and Marsden. 

Mr Cracknall left for Lamu in the Barnwa 
last Ihursday morning in order to hold a 
Court there as Chief Judge of the Imperial 
British Last Africa Company. There are 
one or two eases for trial, the one of greatest 
importance being the murder of a Banyan at 
raza a few months ago. The Banyan was 
louml dead one morning in his house which 
is 111 an isolated position; and though suspicion 
pointed strongly to certain individuals, it 
was impossible, owing to the district beinn- an 
outlying one, to collect sufficient evidence to 
justify their committal for trial earlier. Mr. 
MeLeunan the district superintendent of the 
l.B.L.A. Coy at Lamu however has succeeded 
m collecting enough evidence to justify to 
committal of seven men, about a month ami 
Jealousy is supposed to have been the motive 
of the crime. Mr. F. H. 0. Wilsou prose 
eutes on behalf of the I. B. E. A Cov 

The M. M s. s. D/emntth. from Aden with 
European mails arrived here on the nin-ht of 
the 1st Instant. She had the following passen- 
gers Mrs Colville, Count Teleki, Messrs Tail, 
Alexander, L, Carrisie M. Indigue, Eorbes 
Donald Mackenzie, and Messrs. Mahomed 
llassun, Madowji, and Sulemanji. I 

The annual prize distribution to the successful 
pupils of the Euan Smith Madressa took 
place on Saturday last at the Coopers Boyal 
Naval Institute. The place was decorated 
with many coloured flags and bunting most 
artistically arranged, and the rich and varied 
coloured costumes of the Indian boys added 
to the effect. Soon after I p.m. the Chairman 
of the Committee of the School Mr. Hardinge 
arrived with Mr. and Mrs. Kestell-Cornish 
I and they were conducted to seats arranged 
l for them on a raised platform at one end of 
the spacious room, after nearly all who had 
been in vited arrived, the proceedings commen- 
ced with Mr. Hardinge calling upon the 
Hon Secretary to read the report for the 
past year. The Secretary said, that the 
School was founded in 1891, its object bem- 
to give the benefits of elementary education 
to young Indian and Native boys, and that 
i the expectations of the rounders were fully 
I realized He then gave a succinct account 
jot the business transacted at the various 
I Committee meetings held during the year, 
^ commented on the increasing number of 
j students, the state of finances, and concluded 
| by reading the report founded on the annual 
examination of the boys held by Mr. Lascari 
| at the requestof the Committee, and submitted 
! t0 th™\ In that report Mr. Lascari, 
j had expressed his satisfaction at the profici- 
I en,c-!'' Splayed by the boys in most of the 
j Sl,hjects taught, at the fact also that physical 
j culture was not altogether neglected, and 
1 horn-“’f01U?e*} b.V ^commending that the 
hours of study m the school might with 
advantage be reduced. After this some of the ( 
boys gave recitations, a young Borah lad 
opened the programme with a recitation in 
Aralnc from A1 Koran. The solemn words as 
Utrm • *V ^deeply impressed the Faithful. 
Ihis was followed by recitations in gujera- 
thi 
1 "'hich were well executed, to be iu turn 
followed by a few in English, ’it 
• "1 x 7* —xfc was quite, 
a surprise to hear the juveniles recite short 
passages in English with elearucss, distinct- 
ness and due attention to accents showim' 
that the examiner’s flattering comments on 
the proficiency of the hoys in English were 
not unmerited, one boy recited the well 
known passage from the Bard of Avon, where 
the history of humanity iu its individual 
aspect is so vividly given in the seven parts 
we arc said to fly on the stage of this world, 
the seventh and last “Sans everything” bein'' 
not a very tempting one to enter upon, and 
which most of us thanks to the climate of 
Zanzibar will be effectually prevented even 
from approaching'! 

March 6, 1895. 
After the recitations, the most interesting 
pert of the function was gone through viz the 
distribution of prizes, which were given out 
by Mrs. Cornish. 
The first boy of the school Fazul Bana, 
besides receiving three prizes was the lucky 
recipient of a prize of Bs. 50 from Mr. Hard- 
inge after the prizes, which consisted of books 
chiefly, were distributed Mr. Hardinge rose 
and requested the Hon. Secretary to translate 
what he said, for those who could not 
understand English. 
Ladies and Gentlemen. 

It gives me great pleasure to preside at a 
gathering like this, as I take a keen interest 
in the progress and well-fare of this Institu- 
tion. The way in which the boys have gone 
through their English recitations, shows 
what progress they have made, and as Eng- 
lish must be to them like a dead Language they 
shoud justly feel as proud of their efforts, as 
I should have, if at their age, I had succeeded 
in reciting passages as well from Latin or 
Greek. 

I quite agree with what is stated in the 
report as to the necessity of active eo-oper- 
ation on part of the parents, and I call upon 
the Indian Gentlemen here to do their ut 
most in every way to further the efforts of 
the founders of this Institution 

THE GAZETTE. 

games should be encouraged and it is iu 
great measure their love for these, that has 
made the English people the manly and 
robust race they are, with these words, 
calling again on the parent of the boys for 
steady co-operation with the school authori- 
ties, aud thanking Mrs. Cornish for so kindly 
consenting to distribute the prizes Mr. Hard- 
inge resumedhisseat amid cheers. Mr. Laseari 
proposed a vote of thanks in the name of the 
Committee to Mr. Hardinge for the keen 
and practical interest he has shown in the 
wellfare of the School, to which Mr. Hardinge 
having suitably replied, the gathering broke 
up shortly before G p.m. 

The Bombay and Persia Steam Navigation 
Company s s Nadcri from Calcutta, with a 
cargo of rice, and few passen gers arrived here 
on the 4th Instant. 

The Concert in Aid of the Famine Fund 
which took place last Saturday was a great 
success. The room was crowded and many 
had to remain standing. Great praise is due to 
all who took part in the evening’s proceedings. 

Bank, arrived here bv last French Mail. 

Mr. Forbes the Manager for the National 

The I. B.E. A. Coy s.s. Juba from North, 
and the D. 0. A. L. s. s. Kanzler with Mails 
from Aden arrived here on the 5th Instant. 

H. M. S. Bramble arrived in Bombay. 
She was in the Mediterranean fleet but re- 
ceived orders to temporarily join the East 
Squadron in place of H. M. S. Redbreast 
and Pigeon, which have left for China. 

Of the boys here, many will be hereafter 
merchants, or members of the learned profes- 
sion, or will enter the Government service 
which the Indian Government has thrown 
open to the deserving and aspiring youth of 
that country, and whatever their walk in life, 
they will find that a sound knowledge of 
the subjects taught in this School i. e. 
English, Gujerathi, Arithmetic, Geography, 
and History will be of great use to them. 
The parents of some of these boys will say 
“ We can understand the usefulness of the 
other subjects but what is the use of Historv” 
of what use is it to a hoy in after life to know 
which King reigned 500 years ago, or which 
General defeated which 300 years ago. A 
knowledge of these events will not enable him 
Their Highness the Duke aud Duchess 
to determine the probable value of cloves in 
Johann Albrechet von Mecklenberg, Prince 
the London market, or the 1 ise and fall of the 
Schonburg Waldenburg, and Count Hochberg 
markethere.” ButIshouldtellthcmthat,histo-1 who are on a tour are now in Ceylon, and it 
ry and that history of India opens up a wide ■ is more than probably they will visit the Ger- 
field for the hoys. It teaches them the man territories in East Africa, 
history of a civilization which flourished 
when most of the modem civilizations were 
yet unborn. It fires the imagination of the 
hoys with a spirit of emulation when they- 
read in its pages, the deeds of the chivalrv 
of Rajputana which vied with those of the 
chivalry of middle ages. It tells them of 
the doings of Kings like Akbnr, and Auruug- 
zeeb, and in latter days of statesmen like 
Sir Salar Jung, and Maharaja Scindia of 
Gwalior. It makes them feel proud of their 
country and of the men, their countrv 
produced, and for these reasons I welcome 
the introduction of the study of Indian 
History in this school. 

The German man-of-war Seeadler arrived 
in Bombay from Seychelles. She remains in 
Bombay for about three months so as to be 
docked, and then goes home. 

The German Cruiser Irene arrived in Cey- 
lon from Wilhelmshaven last month and then 
left to join the Squadron in the China sea as 
a flagship. 

The Ancient Romans talked of a sound 
mind in a sound body and I am at one with 
what is stated in the report as to the value 
of attention paid in the school to physical 
culture. When I am walking or riding out, 
ic gives me pleasure to see so many of the 
Khojuh hoys riding out on cycles and 
managing them with .skill too. ■ All out-door 

The American Yacht Eleanor arrived in 
Bombay last month. She left New London 
on the 28th of November last, and called in 
at Ossores, Marseilles, Canns, Leghorn, Na- 
ples, Messina, Port Said, Ismailin, Suez and 
Aden. The owner Mr. Slater with his wife, 
and a large party are on board, and intend 
having a cruise round the world. 

Ix H. B. M. CONSULAR COURT AT 

ZANZIBAR. 

Probate and Admixistratiox. 

Cause No. 3 of 1895. 

In the Estate of Can.ji, Rajpar deceased. 
This was au application for probate of a paper 
purporting^ to be the will of the late Khoja 
Canji Rajpar. It was made before His 
Honour Judge de Sausmarez on February 
23rd when judgment was reserved. 
Mr. Lascari appeared for the applicant. 
There was no opposition. The facts appear 
sufficiently in the judgment. 
JUDGMENT. 

This is a case in which probate has been 
asked of a paper which purports to be the 
last will of Khoja Canji Rajpar. The paper in 
question was written by a friend of the 
deceased from a rough draft in the deceased's 
hand writing ; this draft had been carefully 
considered by the deceased, aud it seems 
undoubtedly to have represented his testamen- 
tary intentions, and had he lived, a short time 
longer it would have been executed. The 
paper has also been sworn to be an accurate 
copy of the draft. The only sou of the 
deceased, who had no other child, propounded 
this will. There was no opposition, this 
being a question of Revenue, as administra- 
tion duty is higher than probate. 

The law governing matters of this nature 
has to be considered. By the Order in Council 
of 1884 the Indian Succession act is in force 
hero, but the 331st Section thereof excludes 
the property of any Hindu, Mahomedau or 
Budhist from its operation. The Khojas 
being subject to Hindu law in matters of 
succession are consequently not under the 
operation of the Act. Many provisions of the 
Act are inforced in Indian under the Hindu 
Wills Act, and the Probateand Administration 
Act has made many provisions in respect of 
wills and the property of person dying testate 
or intestate, but these Acts are not in force 
here. I have then to consider whether English 
law is to govern this will, aud I must conclude 
that it does not. The property of Hindoos 
and Mahomedans has always been distributed 
in Zanzibar according to the particular 
practice of Hindu aud Mahomedan law ; and 
English law, which has been laid down by 
the Order in Council as that to be followed ' 
save when elsewhere provided, has never been 
applied by this Court in such a case and, I 
think,_rightly. The next question is whether 
there is a difference between moveable and 
immoveable property; in view of Article 
XVI of the treaty which grants exterritoria- 
lity I think the lex ret sitae must be ousted in 
the case of real property and the law admini- 
stered by the Courts here substituted. That 
law is the law administered in India, wt-ich 
is the domicil of origin of most British 
subjects here; it will in this case be the same 
for real and personal property ; however, as 
I have pointed out, certain Indian enactments 

4 

are not in force here, though I think it 
would be a good thing that they should be. 
I must, therefore conclude to adopt the law 
which was applicable in the Mofussil before 
the Hindoo Wills Act; and here there are 
several cases to help me, notably Terachund 
Bose vs Nobeert Chunder Hitter reported 3 
W. It. 13s and Vinayak Saroyan Jog vs 
Govindrnv Chintaman Jog. 6 Bombay A. C. 
114. I have however only seen the' Digest 
ropoi't of these cases. Taking the cases as a 
whole this appears to be a valid will and 
entitled to probate which must be granted. 

  THE GAZETTE 
be seen growing wild everywhere, the whole 
place is more or less under cultivation, millet 
Indian corn, ground nuts, a small bean called 
kundi and in som e jilaces, rice is grown. Utan gi 
is a very small village consisting only of a few 
huts, it is under the jurisdiction of the Liwali 
of Mombaesa, a fine camping ground is mar- 
ked by a tope of mango trees, these trees are 
supposed to have been originally planted by 
a Portuguese priest many years ago. Excellent 
drinking water is obtainable from an old 
Portuguese well. 

To be continued. 

UOMBASSA TO MALINDI. 

A stranger arriving at Mombassa for the 
first time cannot help but be struck with the 
magnificent scenery, belts of palm trees ex- 
tending ns far as the eye can see, the ruins 
of the old Portuguese fort, and the charmino- 
mission houses which arc visible throun-h the 
dark green foliage of the coepanut palms all 
present to the traveller a life of complete rest. 
Entering the harbour some very fine houses 
arc scon notably the hospital of the I.B.E.A 
Coy. Sir Tharia Topans. The Liwali’s,' and 
the Administration offices. The European 
Residents in Mombassa are most hospitable 
and it is very seldom that a stranger has to 
seek accommodation in the hole], A tram- 
way runs from Mombassa town to Kileudini 
the residence of the Administrator of the I.B 
E A. Coy. Kilendoni will one day become aplace 
ot importance, more especially as the British 
Government are contemplating the construc- 
tion of the railway to Uganda, and if this 
occurs Kilendem with be the termimus. 
. Living at Mombassa is fairly good, mutton 
is always obtainable perhaps not of the very 
best, as the Arabs prefer goat meat to sheep. 
r mil can always be had either mangoes 
pmeaple sweet limes, plantains, jack fruit! 
oread fruit, cachunut, and oranges. Drinking 
water drawn from the wells is not very °-ood° 
the Europeans have large reservoirs at- 
tached to their houses so that rain water cun 
be collected. 
Fish is to be had in large quantities and of 
an excellent kind, the Swahilis prefer the 
shark to anythmg else. Jfot much shooting is 
to be had on the Island although it has been 
known for one or two lions to be killed, these 
must have ?or. across the creek at Makupaat 
very low tiae. 1 
Hyaenas though are numerous and they can 
be seen and heal'd nearly all night long. From 
Momonssa to get on the mainland one has 
to cross over by ferry, two of these are const- 
antiy plying one between the Custom House 
and English Point, and the other lower down 
between Kimanee and Kisauni. English point 
was once a very busy place, the workshops of 
the I.B.E.A. Coy. were all erected here, and 
a number of nice little wooden houses for the 
Europeans but now the place seems quite 
deserted. -Natives prefer crossing lower 
down at Kisauni, as the main path leads 
thtough the Mission grounds and then bran- 
ches off for the Interior, from Kisauni up 
to Utangi a distance of nearly 7 miles, the 
path winds in and out, through grand plant- 
ations of cocoanut palms, immense mango 
trees the Cachunut, and pineapples are to 

THE ITALIANS IN AFRICA. 

General Baratieri recently requested King Me- 
nelik to write to Has Mangascia and urge upon 
hiui the advantages of peace. Instead of doing 
this the King desired Has Mangascia to attack the 
Italians with all the forces of the Tigre. King 
Menelik announced that Ras Alula had been des- 
patched with a second powerful army, and added 
that in case of necessity he himself would march 
against the Italians with another army. 
General Baratieri has sent troops to pursue Ras 
Mangascia, hoping to capture him. Many chiefs 
of the Tigre desire to make submission to Italy. 
. fhe squadrons of cavalry and five battalions of 
infantry are to be despatched to Africa to reinforce 
General Baratieri’s army. 
King Humbert has sent another message of 
congratulation to General Baratieri. His Majesty 
declares that the victories at Coatit and Senafa 
constitute a fresh triumph of civilization over bar- 
barism. He warmly thanks all the officers and 
men for their gallantry and devotion to dutj. 
In his flight from Senafa, Ras Margascia left in 
his camp a number of ensigns and a quantity of 
war material. This is regarded as a proof that 
many influential chiefs were with him. In the tent 
of Has Mangascia some important letters were 
discovered, and around it were a number of corpses. 
As he fled southwards Ras Mangascia passed 
Adigrat, and on the same day the native chiefs 
and warriors of the district came to the Italian 
camp with offers to pursue him. 
General Baratieri, leaving a detachment at Senafa, 
is returning with the rest of his troops. 

All is quiet at Kassala. 
•nJienera c ^ara^eri has arrived at Saganeiti, and 
will leave for Asmara with the bulk of his force. 
All continues quiet on the Atbara— 
General Baratieri, with the bulk of his troops, 
has arrived at Asmara on his way hack to the coast, 
ilotli the Italian and native population gave the 
General and his forces an enthusiastic welcome. 
According to news from Kassala no movement 
on the Atbara lias yet been reported on the part 
of the Dervishes. The tribes of the Bark and 
Basa are apparently engaged in raiding the Abys- 
sinian provinces on the lower March:—Times. ' 

IS SLATIN BEY RETURNING FROM 

THE SOUDAN? 

The report from Vienna that Slatin Bey has 
escaped from the Mahdi is a reminder of the fact 
that here are still a number of Europeans in captivi- 
ty in Omdurman. According to the rumour, the 
ex-Governor General of Darfur is making for Kassa- 
la. I revious fugitives Father Ohrwalder and others 
have escaped to Egypt, and, perhaps, it was a good 
plan now to alter the route; but how Slatin is to 
get into Kassala when it is almost surrounded by the 
Soudanese forces it is not easy to understand. The 
bringing away of captives from the Mahdi via Wady 
Haifa has-cost at least £200 in each case. Some of 
the expense lias been borne by the Egyptian Intelli- 
gence Department, and if it should turn out that 
the Italians have contributed to the sum necessary 

  March 6, 1895. 
to secure Slatin’s release, they have no doubt niade 
a good investment, for the young soldier’s informa- 
tion as to the real strength of the Mahdists will he 
invaluable. Slatin, who is a Viennese and first went 
to Africa in his seventeenth year, was one of G' ord- 
on’s men. As he was twenty-three when he became 
Governor of the province of Darfur, now in insur- 
rection against the Mahdi, lie is this year only 
thirty-eight The fugitive has patiently endured 
great hardships in the Soudan, of which hunger 
and chains have not been the worst to a man of his 
spirit:—The Westminster Gazette. 

BRITISH CENTRAL AFRICA. 

The Arab chief Rumaliza has succeeded in leav- 
ing Tanganyika, and has gone eastwards to the 
coast through German territory. His power is 
said to be absolutely crushsd beyond recovery in 
Manyemaland. 
Locusts are still ravaging the Tanganyika pla- 
teau and are spreading south. They have not yet 
caused much damage in the Protectorate. Cattle 
disease is apparently extinct. 
I The establishment of a municipality in Blantyrc 
is an accomplished fact, and the first town council 
lors have been elected. 
Mr. Alfred.!. Swann has been appointed British 
Magistrate and Collector at Hotakota, the Jumbe’s 
chief town, and an important slave ferry. Hr. 
Swann has been requested to explore the strip of 
country between North Taganyika and the Albert 
Edward Lake, with a view to connecting them for 
purposes of commerce:—The Times. 

Madagascar was, perhaps, better known to our 
giandfathers than it is to us. This may seem a 
strange thing to say, but the old merchant-adven- 
turers who went round the Cape of Good Hope had 
a keener eye for “ black ivory ” for the West Indies 
than even for the pearls of the East Indies. When 
John Company attained a political, not to say an 
Imperial, status he had no time to dally about this 
great island off the African Coast, and so it drop- 
ped gradually out of the log-books and out of sight. 
V lien it reappeared before the present genera- 
tion, the island ranked almost as a few discovery, 
and even to-day few people, in this country know 
ns much about it as do the French—and that is 
not a great deal. At the present moment Mada- 
gascar represents two things to the average Briton 
a possible casus belli with France, and a probable 
addition to the French colonial empire. And yet, 
if we are to believe Captain Dawson, who certainly 
is no mean authority on the subject, and who has 
just been giving a London audience the fruits of 
his experiences and the sum of-his convictions, this 
African island, which yet is not of Africa, is des- 
tined to occupy an important place in the future of 
the Eastern world. The climate is generally be- 
lieve to be unhealty, and certainly it is not favour- 
able to occupation by European troops in certain 
seasons of the year, as the French know; but we are 
getting ^wiser now than in the days of the Indian 
“griffin,” and we have learned that the healthiness 
or otherwise of climate is very much a matter of con- 
duct. Captain Dawson’s contention, after long 
residence in the island, is that Madagascar is capa- 
ble, by reason of its soil, climate, and formation, 
of yielding in profusion and in perfection all the 
richest and moat valuable products of the temper- 
ate and torrid zones; that there are unlimited 
marketsopen for itsprodueeatgood prices, apartfrom 
domestic consumption; and that it only needs Bri- 
tish capital and British energy “to reap one of the 
richest harvests in this last virgin country of the 
world.” 
This looks a large order, and aggravatingly so at 
a time when Madagascar seems about to drop into 
the maw of France. But there’s many a slip ’twixt 
the cup and the lip,” and the Hovas are not yet 
conquered, muefi less annexed. As the third largest 

March. 6, 1895., 
island in the world, after Borneo and New Guinea, 
Madagascar has plenty of bulk, though more length 
than thickness. \ et within its area of less than a 
quarter of a million of square miles, intersected by a 
range of mountains rising to a height of !)006‘ feet, 
there is some of the most interesting and productive 
country in the world. It is really a terra incognita, 
because there are no roads, and produce has to be car- 
ried to the const much as it is from Uganda to Mom- 
bassa—and just because there arc no roads labour, 
though cheap, is most expensive. Unlike the Mau- 
ritius, Madagascar is not the chosen home of hurri- 
canes, and that is a great thing, because Madagascar 
appears to be destined to outshine Mauritius as a 
great sugar-producing island. Sugar of course, is 
dirt cheap nowadays, but so are most commodities: 
and anew Held of sugar production has interest for 
all the civilised races—especially as Fiji, of which so 
much was hoped, lias turned out rather a disappoint- 
ing place. Madagascar, moreover, is some thou- 
sands of miles nearer to us than Fiji is, and in the 
matter of practical commerce distance does not lend 
enchantment to the view. It is not Captain Daw- 
son alone who asserts it, but a large body of expert 
opinion declares that the commercial future of Ma- 
dagascar rests on sugar—that there is no part of 
the world in which sugar can be so well and so chea- 
ply produced as in that island. Says one reporter:— 
“With the introduction of good machinery and 
sufficient capital, Madagascar could supply the whole 
world with sugar, and at enormous advantage to 
herself financially. British capital and energy has 
been the pioneer to this industry.” And not sugar 
alone -for all the soil is virgin, all kinds of tropical 
vegetation grow’ in abundance, and the higher lauds 
are suitable for wheat and other temperate produce, 
so we are assured. The variety of climate and of 
product form the rich endowment which the island 
enjoys from bountiful Nature. Says Captain Daw- 
sou:—“There are in all parts extensive virgin forests 
abounding in valuable trees—among these are ebony, 
mahogany, rosewood, cedar, sandalwood, copal, and 
many other kinds. The immense virgin forests are 
very imperfectly known, but what portions have 
been recently exploited have been found to have 
varied kinds of valuable woods suitable for cabinet 
work and building purposes.” Wheat is grown 
at an elevation of 4000 feet, and rice along the 
low grounds; but coffee, it seems, can be grown 
of the choicest quality tobacco grows wild, and 
cotton of “long, fine, silky, staple” is already 
finding its way to Madagascar. In fact, to judge 
from the list, it would be hard to say what can 
not be grown to advantage in Madagascar: but, 
nevertheless, among the rural population cattle- 
raising is tke principal industry of the western 
portions of the island. One wonders W’hether this 
is a survival from the days of tke Easi India 
Company, when the victualling station of St. 
Helena was supplied by the natives of Damara- 
land, and when vessels rounding the Cape would 
be in need of fresh meat before stretching across the 
Indian Ocean. However this may be, a trade in 
frozen meat between the African island and Smith- 
field is already suggested as a possibility. Gold, 
too, is reported to exist, andgokl has also been expor- 
ted, hut whether it is destined to add to the fortunes 
of the island is a problem of the future. In the 
meantime it seems to add only to its misfortunes, 
if we may judge from the disputes about concessions 
and the like, and the eagerness which the prospect 
of gold-finding has infused into the French attack. 
After a faithful perusal of all the glowing reports 
on tlyj resources of Madagascar, one is constrained to 
admit that there is something in it. Madagascar 
is certainly beautiful, and may one day be rich. 
But it needs roads and railways, and capital both 
lor them and for the development of natural 
resources. Will that capital be furnished by Briton: 
will they select Madagascar as a place of settlement 
while France is endeavouring to have things all 
her own way ? And supposing that France should 

THE GAZETTE. 

attain her presumed, though not her avowed, end, 
will she provide the wherewithal, or will Madagascar 
become a second Algiers. The outlook is full of 
interest in many ways, and especially in so far as 
tlio character of the Hovas enters into it. It is 
said that they will never consent to rest under the 
protection of France, and that they will fight for 
their national independence so long as they can 
muster a troop. It is certain, at any rate, that the 
Franch army will have no easy walk-over, and 
that the losses on both sides will be heavy. Can 
the horror of such a conflict not be averted by a 
separation of the commercial from the political 
elements of the dispute ? It seems deplorable that 
political ambitions should make shipwreck of a 
country of such rich commercial potentiality. And 
yet it is odd that during all the centuries through 
which the scramble for Africa and the race for 
India have proceded, the European nations have 
hurried past this Treasure Island as if it were a 
place of no account or of evil fate : The Glascow 
Herald. 

There is still work to be done in the exploration 
of Central Africa, and a strong interest attaches 
to the instalments of that work which from time 
to time reach us from the labours of intrepid men 
who commit themselves fo the task. Count von 
Gotzen, a German explorer, has succeeded in pas- 
sing through Central Africa from cast to west, 
choosing a route not far apart from that of Mr. 
Stanley, when he went in search of Emin Pacha, 
—only the reverse way. Count von Gotzen passed 
through the dense forest region lying north of the 
Congo, which Mr. Stanley describes so graphically ; 
but the most valuable portion of his work was given 
to the exploration of the mountain ranges lying to 
the. west of the southern end of the Victoria Nya- 
nza. These mountains have been seen and partially 
explored from various directions, with the result 
that the several observers describe them from the 
appearance they presented to them, and it has been 
rather, difficult for geographers to reconcile the 
accounts and form a correct map of the region. 
There is reason to believe that Count von Gotzen’s 
researches will enable that to he done. The Ulu- 
mbiro Mountains were found by the Count to 
consist of five distinct peaks, tl.c most westerly of 
which is an active volcano, which he estimates to 
be 11,220 feet in height. For three days he cut 
his way through the forests that clothe its sides, 
and ascended to the top. He found the crater 
walls 1,000 feet high, and enclosing a space about 
a mile in diameter, with two shafts protruding 
from the floor, from one of which steam issued. 
Count von Gotzen has examined the river and lake 
system connected with these mountains, and his 
discoveries promise to add a great deal to the 
geography of an interesting region of Africa, which 
will long remain difficult of access, though nothing 
worse than forests and morass appears to block 
the way :—Newcastle Daily Journal. 

There is intelligence from the Scots Livingstonia 
missionaries, to the north-west of Lake Nyassa, 
British Central Africa, up to the 13th October 
last. Dr Laws and Dr Elmslie had been explor- 
ing for a healthy site for the central station and 
industrial institution in the region to the west of 
Mount Walla, but no news had been received from 
‘hem for three weeks. Among the Ngoni tribe, 
at Ekwendeni and all around, the “inkalata,” or 
book-fever, remained unabated, able-bodied war- 
riors, as well as their children, pleading to be 
taught, and to have a book in their own language. 
Miss Stewart, certificated teacher, from Aberdeen, 
had opened girls schools for the tribe, with a like 
result among her own sex : the sewing classes 
became popular at once. Dr Scele is to return on 
furlough next May by the Cape of Good Hope 
and Australia. In the lower districts of the Pro- 

teetoratc, from Bandawe on the west shore of Lake 
Nyassa to the Shire Highlands, smallpox of a very 
virulent type was raging when the mail left. At 
the African Lakes Corporation’s headquarters, 
Mandala, there had been two hundred cases and 
forty-two deaths. The Bandawe schools were 
consequently closed, but not before other seventy 
hoys had been added to the large number of young 
men all over the country, from Chinde to * Lake 
Tanganyika, who possess and read for themselves 
a copy of the Nyanja New Testament, translated 
by Dr Laws, and published in Edimburgh by the 
National Bible Society of Scotland [Scotsman). 

That veteran explorer, M. dc Brazza, is expected 
to land at Marseilles in a few days. For the last 
four years he has been busy in the heart of Central 
Africa, steadily extending French influence and 
developing outlets for the colony he administers. 
Yet, notwithstanding M. de Brazza’s efforts,iwhich 
we should be the last to wish to make light of, the 
fact remains that he has not succeeded in increasing 
to any appreciable extent the financial resources of 
the colony of French Congo. And this will, no 
doubt, help to explain the coldness with which the 
news of his home-coming is received by the French 
press. The enormous tract of country known as 
French Congo is considerably larger in extent than 
France, and a substantial portion of it has been in 
the hands of the French for upwards of forty years. 
To-day it can only boast of a paltry trade of 
£'2i)0,000 per annum. When we compare this 
with the prosperous condition of our own West 
African colonies, such as the Gold Coast and Lagos, 
for instance, the result is very gratifying as far as ■ 
we arc concerned. Nevertheless, we cannot help 
feeling sorry for M. de Brazza, who has worked 
hard and on the whole well for his country, and 
who is—unless we are much mistaken —in a fair 
way of being thrown aside for the more youthful 
school of French explorers, such as the Bingcrs, 
the Mizons, the Maistres, who have the double ad- 
vantage of being young and militaires, while De 
Brazza is neither one nor the other :—The Pall 
Mall Gazette. 

PORTUGUESE EAST AFRICA. 

Senhor Ennes, the Portuguese Delimitation 
Commissioner, has arrived at Delagoa Bay, and is 
holding a council of all the officers there. It is believ- 
ed that some definite course of action in regard to 
the settlement of the frontier between the Portu- 
guese territories and the German possessions in East 
Africa will now be adopted.—{Times). 

We do not blame tbe British East Africa 
Company for trying to make as good a bar- 
gain as they can with the Government. They 
have been offered a sum which amounts to 
nearly a quarter of a million sterling for a 
property and plant which represents an out- 
lay of nearly twice that sum. That is to say, 
they would realize about 10s. for every sove- 
reign expected. Under the circumstances,-not 
a bad “get-out,” since they went into the, 
business on the understanding, defined by 
the late Sir W. Maekinnon, that they must, 
take out their dividends in philanthropy. 
It is pretty certain that they will not get a 
better price from this Ministry, who have r.o 
sympathy with Africa expansion and openly 
speak of Uganda as a damnosa her edit as. And 
how would the Company feel if the Govern- 
ment withdrew' its offer, such as it is P Could 
they, would they, like to have the underta- 
king left in their hands ? The St. James’s 
Gazette. 

EXCHANGE. 

NATIONAL BANK. 

Bank demand drafts on London. 

Wednesday, Fob. 
Thursday, „ 
Friday, March 
Saturday, „ 
Monday, 
Tuesday, 

Us. a. p. 
18 | 10 I 

Per £. 

11. 
1J. 

10 
10 
12 

i! 18 
2 18 
4 18 
o 18 

CHARTERED BANK. 
Ba/ik demand drafts on London. 

Famine Relict Fund in 'l‘c^ °t the distress among the 
natives in German Fast Africa. 
The following subscriptions to the above Fund have 
been notitied to the Treasurer since our last issue, some 
of the Lists being still out the names of the subscribers 
appearing upon them cannot be given till next week, 

Doctor Ansorge Rupees 
Total Rupees 

10. 
10. 

RUPEES 500 REWARD. 

Whereas a murderous assault was 
committed at about 7-30 p. m. on the 
evening of Thursday the 21st. February 
by some person or persons unknown 
on a Khoja, named Mitha Jesa, The 
abo ve reward will be paid to any person 
giving information to the police which 
will lead to the conviction of any person 
or persons implicated in the affair. 

Rs. a. p. 

Wednesday, Feb. 27th 
Thursday, „ 28th 
Friday, March. 1st 
Saturday, „ 2nd 
Monday, „ 4 th 
Tuesday, „ othl 

18 | 12 

Per £. 

% Older ol H. H. The Sultan, 

Llovd Wm. MATHEWS. 

First Minister. 

1° Hoc) ^ hfain. 

rtlo ^41 9^ 

^ ^u) 

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 

Week enpin-o 4tii Mauch 1803. 
Temperatures. 

^$11 

SlMMl 

W eib 

94^ 94( 

^41 Mi<H* ^ic4l^i^ ^ 
^ Moo)^ 9HiM=imi 

Maach 6, 189;y 

m the Will on or before the 5th_dayof 
September 1895. 

H. W. de SAHSMAREZ, 

Asst Judge, 

,7 ., ^ „ H. M. Consular Court 
Zanzibar, otn March, 1895. 

RCdlil RMloiRldl ff/'otiHUvfl 

imiTtt -HH? 3 lean, 
-SUs* ilrl55 

’ll ^ ^ •Wl 

AM iHsj ^ sAiar 

rtlo Ml tertrtlfl VCM A Ortil ^ MlHlSil 
Sdl rtnl iflsiSrt^ tVliHlrt Mrtl 'rtA4lr44lH 
RfflSt RKWldl 'SHAStl ^«i5l iX«ti diAdl 
SHIH » i m<m ARrtRl 
^ “fl^l Ariffirtl (3W AlrtGdl %4irt 
SHI H Sill llA dSllSa "Hlrtlrti si sirtl SfuflA 
^rt 'iRi rt'd i^ji4<hi imz ilrt® 
HSacrt niVlRl •Ktl'flSil § drt rtlo ^ 
“C 1^3 ^-flrti 5li«a 9Hr«i. 

H. W. de SAHSMAREZ 
SiR. S'RSDi. & ^IM^. 

SHl^flyrtrtrt a/iev. 

WWl? rtlo MRl Alisi lifliit. 
NOTICE. 

A meeting ofthe creditors of Abdool 
husem Jivanji will be held in H. B. M:s. 
Consular Court on Monday the 11th 
day ot March 1895, at “l0 A M 
Zanzibar, 6th March 1895. 

H. W. de SAUSMARIZ. 

Asst, Judge, 

Consular Court. Zanzibar. 

avis! 

La vente aux eneheres de la propriet 
de Tounndawa (He de Pemba) prove 
nant de la succession de feu M. Pierre 
Cottoni, est remise au samedi 6 Avril 
prochain. 

Barometer. 

max. min. rain 
Sn.m. Sain.2llu\s. iMlirs.inclia. 
30.0G4 83.8 88.0 81.2 0.00 
30.070 84.2 90.0 81.7 0.00 
30.113 84.8 89.4 82.7 0.00 
30.093 84.0 90.7 82.1 0.00 
30.094 83.9 89.4 81.8 0.00 
30.070 83.0 88.7 SI.l 0.05 
30.043 84.0 88.7 81.0 O.Oq 
30.070 84.1 89.3 81.fi 
Total for ) 
the week \ 0.08 
Total Rainfall to February 28th, 0.54 Inches 

Tuesday. Fob. 2b 
Wednesday. „ 27 
Thursday. „ 28 
Friday March 1 
Saturday. 2 
Sunday ,, 3 
Monday. ., 4 
Weekly ( 
means ) 

F. CHARLESWORTH 

HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 

Month Morning Afternoon 
Date h. m. h m 
March. 5 9 IS 9 48 
» 6 10 25 11 ii 
» 7 0 0 0 55 
.. 3 1 46 2 is 
,,9 2 26 2 58 
” ^ \ 25 3 51 
„ 11 4 11 4 32 
A. Lf P AGNEW, R. N. R. 

Port Officer 

In H. B. M’s. CONSULAR COURT AT 

ZANZIBAR. 

PROBATE AND ADMINISTRATION. 

Cause No. 3 of 1895. 

Notice of Grant of probate in the Estate 

of the late Khoja Canji Rajpar 

Pursuant to an order of H. M. Consular 
Court at Zanzibar granting Probate of the Will 
of the late Khoja Canji Rajpnr deceased, 
who died at Zanzibar on the 2tth day of 
January 1895, all creditors and others having 
chums upon the estate of the above-named 
de ceased are required to send in writing the 
particulars of their debts, claims, or demands, 
to Rashid Cauji Rajpar the executor named 

NOTICE. 

The Sale by public auction of the 
property situated at Toundawa in the 
island of Pemba belonging to late M. 
Pierre Cottoni is postponed to Satur- 
day the 6th of April next. 

'M * "ut 'M * . 

^ llrtilTl Alhrtl UWK iUo iJS* 
srtAirtMl Hiasrtd' i-tlais Siqfla 
rtlo Old Sat OM'TR H? OjAdrti ?lA«U»ii sai- 

W. 

CONSULATE GENERAL OF PORTUGAL 

AT ZANZIBAR. 

Notice is hereby given that in the estate of 
the late Sebastiao Fernandes deceased who 
died in Zanzibar on the 25th February last. 

d)c (Burette. 

FOB ZA^ZIBAH A1STD E^ST 

Vol. IV No. 163] 

ZANZIBAR, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 13, 1895 

[PRICE TWO ANNAS. 

REUTER’S TELEGRAMS. 

Zanzibar oth March, 1895. 

The captured Chinese warships have arrived 
at Yokohama. The Japanese abandoned 
Shantung and Wei-Hai-Wei after destroying 
the forts. The third and fifth Japanese 
divisions have combined near Leaoying. 

The Nicaragua Canal bill has failed to pass 

Congress. 

The Right-Hon Mr. Fowler and Mr. 
Campbell Bannerman are absent from the 
House of Commons owing to influenza. 

The Bill to establish boards of conciliation 
in labour disputes was read for the first time. 
Mr. Chamberlain ridicules the Bill as 
totally inadequate. An agricultural Council 
comprising proxies from all parts of the 
German Empire is sitting in Berlin under 
the presidency of the Minister of Agricul- 
ture discussing numerous vague schemes 
including one for a State monopoly of grain 
with State control over imports. 

7/5 March, 1895. 

Mr. Asquith is ill with influenza. 
The French have surpiised and captured the 

Island of Nossi Be taking 45 Hovas. 

The Times correspondent at Pekin states 
that Likung Chang has started for Japan 
via Tientsin and that the Japanese have 
accepted his credentials. 

The business quarter of Port of Spain has 
been destroyed by fire, and the damage is es- 
timated at nearly a million sterling, the Bri- 
tish and American bluejackets landed and 
saved the rest of the Town. 

8th March 1895. 

The Official bulletin regarding the health of 
the Right Hon Mr. Fowler states that he is 
suffering from the effects of a severe chill 

The report on recruiting states, that the 
army is becoming more popular, and the social 
position of recruits improving. 

I The Army estimates show a decrease of 
I £200,000 but the effective force willbeunchan- 
Jged It is hoped to be able to withdraw one 
battalion from Egypt during the present year. 
Newchang has been captured by the Japanese 
| after desperate street fighting lasting thirteen 
hours, 1900 Chinese were killed and 500 taken 
pirisoners. The Japaneselosswas about 200, the 
remainder of the Chinese fled to Tinkow. 

9th March 1895. 

In the debate on the Estimates in the 
House of Commons, Sir William Harcourt 
stated that, Cyprus proved absolutely useless 
for every purpose, but that having accepted 
the onus we must do the best therewith in 
spite of the growing cost of up-keep. 

Sir Edward Grey, replying to Mr. Asbmead 
Bartlett,—who had suggested that France secured 
access to the Nile,—stated the effect of the recent 
treaty, between France and Belgium, upon British 
interests. These latter would continue to receive 
tlie careful attention of Government, 

The Times Rome corrcspor dent writes, that 
France, in arming and strengthening the Abys- 
sinians. pursues a dangerous game for herself, 
and all Europeans. Moreover France in 1881, 
recognised anew that Abyssinia and its dependencies, 
including Harrar, wore within the Italian Sphere 
of influence. 

3 ct * »u m *. 

Uth March, 1895. 

Mens Bruner amidst the applause of the 
Chamber bitterly attacked the credit Foncier 
Colonial. Mons Chautemps promised to give 
the matter his attention. 

After some hesitation France has decided 
to send a squadron to Kiel to be present at 
the opening of the Baltic Canal. 

General Duchesne leaves this month to 
assume thecommand of the Madagascar Armv 
Japan has requested that Lihung Chang’s 

departure may be postponed for a week. 

The Academy at Woolwich has been 
dispersed owing to the large number of cases 
of influenza. 

The Standard states that Lord Rosebery 

requires a prolonged period of rest. 

The Japanese captured the coast forts of 
Tinkow on the < th and attacked Thinchuntai 
on the morning of the 9th, after over three 
hours fierce fighting. The Chinese lost 2000, 
and the Japanese 96. 

The Right Hon Arther W. Peel the 
speaker of the House of Commons will shortly 
retire. 

12th March, 1895. 
Lord Rosebery continues weak and depressed. 
The Debate on the Budget will be taken after 

Easter. 

a'rtirt mo hMi ui?=t t<r4H. 

’firtid SiasnSiidl ym snu nwi 'Il?t 
>i*l«t(&rt mmi 5<Uw 8 5H4 5i3 am- 
1=13' ^ '"Url 5i«afi5il5i Stoq 
«»3‘ aH*t S'D'trttftmiU ilia livpuau anld 
ill $?l?(l»li Mrt htiTO HiiStl aniMal. 

>ti§C-U ftHldlUt SHR«l 4?} & ogu 

SxlV afl*uSUn aHl«U &. 

sauu*fl ambus gtfl mi^ 

«U$ rtiv/j' 5. 

Hi HCisft iiMlIKl MlR'swi 5> sivu- 
*cU h£ rtffl il UHlijl aHlH^kl orMHu swill 
mhsi ymr-uu Hlo iU?s(lSi Su Wlc-t msj 
rt<} ™“ giH-iiui agio^' B. 

n-ant aul ail ilni sjui^i il ou^ilwi 
^ HU, agu mwefl 0114' SHlrtl Suifl 
4441 andl am onstrtl uu a, 

rtlo HRai Kiq. 

aiidni HstiHsu aliiiswi omm 
^aqi a. S/iataH.ut 41R IlrtiW agTj cfl6_ 
Sld-rtlS "tHlrtlijl am aiHl a. rtio ag< HiaiMl 
"tHl'fljj 44A SflSilH'H Hilil Siaft qy a, 

tfl rttHSUl ajaHi S-uc-l ufla, Slditewi HI H- 

SlrtWi =JUo>j' a. 

WHoitfi, tft Hlo 
USCH? =H-l Mlo S^Sla “Irt^vlrt ajiiogfl AlUlHi 
all'll 41441 rt drtl. 

h^ih euitfl U4^R n.ii 

rtHdl ilu aai^ ofla vtae-Qatt uiaimHi agioij g. 

