tHic ©alette. 

FOR -AJSTP EAST A.FRICA 

Vol. V. No. 214] 

ZANZIBAR, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 4, 1896 

[PRICE TWO ANNAS. 

THE GAZETTE. 

February 26,1896 

Statement of Kxports from Zanzibar 

in January 1S00. 

Merchandise 

United Kingdom 

EUROPE 

Bombay 

Calcutta etc. 

Amber   
Ammunitions   
Arms Fire   
bags and Candas   
Beads   
Beer   
Birds   
Borities, Majingo etc  
Building Materials   
Bullion   
Chillies   
Cloves   
„ Stems   
Mother Cloves   
Coins   
Coir, Twist, Thread etc  
Copra k Chickichicki   
Crockery k Glassware   
Carriages   
Cotton (raw)   
Cocoanuts   
Coals   
Dates   
Dry fish k Shark fins   
Fire wood   
Flour   
Ghee   
Grain   
Rice   
Wheat   
Matama   
Chcroko etc.   
Grocery   
Ground Nuts   
Gum Copal   
Ham ware   
Hides   
Hippo Teeth   
Ivory   
Jewellery k Ornaments   
Live stock   
Horses   
Cows k Bullocks   
Camels    
Donkeys    
Goats k Sheep   
Sundry   
Machinery   
Mineral Water   
Miscellaneous   
Opium   
OrchcllaWced   
Paints, Oil, Turpentine   
Petroleum   
Piece Goods   
Rhino Horns   
Rubber   
Salt 
Shells & Cowries   
Sim Sim   
Spirits   
Sugar   
Timber   
Tobacco   
Tortoise shells   
Vegetable   
Way   
Wine   
Wire   
Wood Work (Doors Windows.) ... 
Total... 

Weight. Pkges Value 

Weight I’kges Value 

Weight Pkges Value 

Weight Pkges Value 

Weight Pkges Value 

2800 
100540 
27440 

25 
701 
ISJti 

COO 
12314 
1080 

1410532 
110180 

10100 
787 

50000 

174709 
3833 
459 
17G40 

11900 
139081 

1120972 
121622 

7756 
864 

3785 

2GOO 

4G 

3650 

770 

24070 
690 
800 
17874 
5700 

157 

11 

2927G 
37S5 

11540 
30253 

1141 
333 
4271 

10G2 
3270 
55 
95 

168 
17 
8 
1 
175 

26 
151 

3600 
17115 
9440 
175 

260 
3850 
8900 
250 

10203 
22784 

74 
175 

17735 
5450 

339 
92; 

6030 
892 

1470 93355 

9 289 

200 

1805 

13715 

1400 

22G 

885 

500 

590 

41750, 2! H 

2625 

300 3 200 
7000 
400' 3 24 
34 
175 
175 1 

48423 

105143; 723 

Tho weight of Coals and Timber is reckoned in tons, while the weight of all other articles is reckoned in pounds. 

tarter** migrants. 

Zanzibar, 26‘h February, 1896. 

There is no news yet of the landing of 
I)r. Jameson but it is reported that be will 
appear to-day at Bow Street, where the 
Duke of Ahercorn is waiting te offer bail. 
It is stated in Borne that General Peloux 
will supersede General Baratieri. More 
troops are going to Abyssinia. 
The French Chamber has elected a com- 
mittee wholly adverse to the Cabinet’s 
income-tax bill. 
Dr. Jameson and his officers have been 
secretly landed at Purfleet and conveyed by 
a circuitous route to Bow Street, and there 
charged with leading a military expedition 
against a friendly State. They have been 
hailed out for £2,000 each and the case is 
adjourned lor a fortnight. 

9/fh February 1896. 

The Times correspondent at Constantino- 
ple states that in reply to the Sultan’s invi- 
tation to regularise the situation in Egypt, 
Lord Salisbury stated that the suggestions 
of the Turkish Ambassador were too vague. 
The Sultan, therefore, has appointed a Com- 
mission to formulate concrete proposals. 
The Foreign Office and the Turkish 
Ambassador alike deny the Times Keport. 
Jt transpires however, that negotiations 
about Egypt are proceeding between Great 
Britain and France. 

28th February, 1896. 

Mr. Curzon stated in the House that no 
Foreign Government had made proposals 
recently involving an early evacuation of 
Egypt. 
The French Chamber has approved the 
policy of Government relative to the Siamese 
agreement. 

29th February, 1896. 

The Washington Senate has passed a 
resolution by 64 votes against 6 to recog- 
nise the Cuban insurgents as belligerents, 
and requesting President Cleveland to invite 
Spain to recognise the autonomy of Cuba. 
The leading Senators violently denounced 
the Spanish barbarism and termed General 
Weyler a butcher. 
The House of Commons has passed Mr. 
Balfour’s amendment on the procedure of 
supply, the limit has been extended to 

25 days and it is agreed that it will only 
apply to the present session, if workable it 
will become permanent. 
Mr. Goschen speaxing at Lewes said that 
the relations with Germany wore now ex- 
cellent ; it was hoped that recent events re- 
moved the fallacy abroad t hat Great Britain 
would only defend her home interests. 
English isolation was self imposed, he 
believed that in event of a struggle for life 
England would not be found alone. 

2nd March, 1896. 

M. Faure, attended by M. Borgeoishas 
started for Nice to be present at the cente- 
nary fetes, they stopped at Lyons where a 
great reception was accorded them. Ex- 
changes of visits between the Emperor of 
Austria and the Tsarvitch will take place 
at Nice. 
The Ex-Premier of Madagascar arrives at 
Marseilles on 9th Inst, and will be conveyed 
at once to Geryville, Algeria. 
A Yellow Book on Madagascar will be 
published in a fortnight. 
Karatheodory the Governor of Crete 
has resigned owing to lack of funds to 
conduct the Government. The Island is 
in a very disturbed state. 
A systematic agitation has commenced 
in Germany for a large increase of the navy. 
The Spaniards are furious, however Presi- 
dent Cleveland is indisposed to net in as 
much as the Consular Reports show that 
Congress has been misled regarding the 
facts in Cuba. Great popular excitement 
exists in Madrid. The American Legation 
is guarded. The Government has forbidden 
demonstrations of the people. 

3n/ March, 1896. 

The negotiations for the visit of President 
Kruger still continue. The Times states 
that President Kruger asks for the abroga- 
tion of the Convention of 1884, and the 
substitution of a Treaty of Commerce and 
amity. He will recognize Britain as the 
paramount Power, and guarantee the auton- 
omy of the Transvaal, provided Britain 
concedes to the Transvaal the right of pre- 
emption of Delagoa Bay. 
Menelik’s army has repulsed a combined 
attack of the Italian troops after a desperate 
fight. The Italians retreated, their loss is 
not known. 
The Washington House has passed the 
Cuba resolution similar to the Senate. 

Mr. Goschen has introduced the Navy 
Estimates ; they proride for an increase of 
5000 men, five battleships 13 cruisers and 
28 torpedo destroyers, all to be completed 
in 1899. The cost £10,000,000, to be spread 
over three years. The age of entry of 
Naval cadets is to he raised one year. The 
“Britannia” will he abolished and replaced 
by a College ashore. The Estimates ask for 
£850,000 for guns and ammunition, and 
three new Docks at Gibraltar at a cost of 
£2,250,000. The total outlay is £14,000.000 

SOUTH AFRICAN 

WEALTH- 
 o::  

Mr. S.F. Van Oss, contributes two articles on 
this subject one to the W/nefcfl'A Century, and 
tho other to the Investors’ Review. His paper, 
which is entitled “The Gold Mining Madness 
in the City,” has the first place in the Nine- 
teenth Century. But although he thinks it is 
madness, he admits that there is method in 
it. Mr. Van Oss puts into a brief compass 
the salient facts which will enable the gen- 
eral public to understand the cause for the 
recent extraordinary boom. In the Rand in 
the Transvaal there are fifty miles of gold 
reef of extraordinary richness :—• 
Dr. Schmeisser and Mr. Hamilton Smith 
concur in estimating the value of tire gold in 
the district, down to a depth of about 1,200 
feet, at somewhere between £300,000,000 
and £350,000,000. 
Besides this enormous mass of gold, which 
is regarded as almost within sight, there may 
be thousands of miles more which have not 
yet been prospected. Enough, however, is 
in sight to have called into existence an 
extraordinary industry. The traveller when 
approaching to the gold mining region is 
astonished at the developments of the gold 
mining works:— 
The works, which now directly employ 
50,000 native miners and 8,000 Europeans, 
crush with their 2,700 stamps enough rook to 
produce over 200,000 ounces of gold a mouth; 
and the output of ore is so regular and reli- 
able that there is literally no possibility of 
disappointment. 
The regularity of the gold deposit in the 
Rand district differentiates it from all other 
gold-mining localities :— 
A ton of ore yields on the average £2 6s. 
6d. in gold, to extract which costs only 
£110s. 6d. Hence over onc-third of the 
gold produced is profit. 

The improved methods of extracting the 
<-old have made many of the mines profitable 
which could not otherwise have been work- 
cd 
In tile early days no more than oU per 
cent, of the gold in the ore could be extracted; 
at present, with the aid of cyanide of potas- 
sium, between 80 and 85 percent, is gained, 
and the proportion can before long he in- 
creased by another 10 per cent. Coupled 
with the effects of railway construction this 
improvement lias had remarkable results. 
In the early days of the industry it did not 
pav to work ore with less than four ounces 
of‘gold to the ton ; now five penny-weights 
suffice in ninny cases. 
These are the facts which underlien the 
enormous boom which has taken place in 
all South African shares. Mr. Van Osa, 
describing the wild gamble which has gone 
on in mining shares, says :— 
Within little more than half a year a con- 
dition of timid enterprise has gradually 
degenerated into a craze for reckless specula- 
tion : a huge advance in values has taken 
place; the aggregate quotation of Witwaters- 
rand shares alone has risen from £30,000,000 
last autumn to some £150,000,000 now. A 
whole mushroom press has sprung up in 
the City, largely called forth by the fosters 
ing sun of company advertising on an 
unstinted scale; perhaps £25,000 a week 
is now spent on bringing new mining ven- 
tures to the notice of the public. The Stock 
Exchange is so active that “after hours ” 
huge concourses of people have often ob- 
structed traffic in Throgmorton Street to 
an extent which necessitated police inter- 
vention ; the three fortnightly settlement 
days had to be augmented by one, because 
it was impossible to crowd all the work with- 
in the customary time ; many firms of stock- 
brokers have been forced to double their 
staff, and to keep their offices open night 
and day at times. 

While admitting that there is good justi- 
fication for investment in the well known 
but pitifully managed mines, he warns the 
investor that even if three million ounces 
are produced next year the total profit would 
not pay more than 2.1 per cent, on the 
present quoted value of the shares in the 
market. For some time past all the interests 
have been combined to force up the prices, 
but sooner or later it will come to be the 
interest of some of the speculators to play 
lor a fall. Thou he fears the market will 
break. His final warning is as follows :— 
These South African shares are largely 
artifical ; though no doubt some shares are 
quoted at prices which represent their actual 
and intrinsic worth, the rise has gone so 
dangerously far now that even the augmented 
output of next year must fail to offer an 
adequate interest upon the capital invested. 
Further. I wish to emphasise the fact that 
the danger of collapse is especially great in 
this market, where strained conditions pre- 
vail, mid where control rules, irresponsible, 
inscrutable, and all powerful. Predictions 
are dangerous, and gloomy forecasts un- 
pleasant to make. But unless this mad 
“boom ” is checked, if it is still possible to 
check it, there will come a day of denouement 
which must load to a collapse so huge that 
the entire business world will feel the shock. 

THE GAZETTE. 

DR. JAMESON’S 

POSITION. 

The English Press still teems with articles 
and correspondence on Ur. Jameson’s action 
and consequent position. Some are of in- 
terest from the authority of the writer, some 
from the actual knowledge of circumstances 
affecting the recent surprise movement. We 
take os a specimen of the former class the 
following letter to the “Times" dealing with 
the question of “raiding" and the legal guilt 
thereof.— 

WHAT IS A RAID? 

Sir,—In T/ie Times of Jan: 27th on page 
11, is a letter from Sir Herbert Stephen on 
the case of Dr. Jameson, whch is worthy of 
all the respect due to his name and authority. 
Of course I do not for a moment mean to 
question the legal arguments contained in 
that letter, but it seems to me, as one who has 
a sincere respect for Dr. Jameson, that 
“the state of facts about to be judicially in- 
vestigated " are not fully set forth in the 
second paragraph of Sir Herbert Stephen’s 
letter. 

It seems to me, from the correspondence 
and information “which we have all read 
lately in the newspapers” that the following 
facts have escaped Sir Herbert Stephen’s 
consideration:— 

1. Dr. Jameson was the Administrator of 
the nearest territory under the rule of the 
Chartered Company, which was on the frontier 
of the Transvaal. 

2. He commanded the nearest police force 

to that State. 

3. This police force, mainly recruited from 
Sir Charles Warren’s Bcchuanaland police 
force, is always mounted and armed. 

4. Sir Herbert Stephen says that “if 
Jameson was committing no crime when he 
raided the Transvaal.” To this expression 
11 venture to ask whether “ raid ” is a legal 
I expression. A raid or foray is a hostile 
I expedition, without declaration of war, for 
' the purpose of plunder. I do not think that 
i Dr. Jameson’s name can he associated with 
such a charge. 

5. The circumstances of Dr. Jameson’s 
march with his mounted police towards 
Johannesburg were that («) Mr. Esselen, 
the “Homo Secretary” of the Boer Govern- 
i ment, had appointed a trained British police 
I officer to superinted the Johannesburg police 
force; that (ft) Mr. Esselen’s colleagues had 
discharged this officer because he was not a 
Boer: (e) that Mr. Esselen had in eonse- 
Iquence i-esigncd office: and that (d) the 
uolice had become disorganised. 

It was in consequence of this that Dr. 
Jameson answered the appeal of his country- 
men in Johannesburg to come and afford 
them the protection of the nearest police. 
Whilst so employed he was tired upon by 
armed Boers in overwhelming numbers, and 
surrendered. 
6. Sir Herbert Stephen also, I have no 
doubt by a slip of the pen, speaks of Dr. 
Jameson’s objective as Pretoria. The ob- 
jective was Johannesburg. 
I hope, Sir, you may think it right to 
publish this criticism on Sir Herbert Ste- 

phen’s letter that these additional facts may- 
be weighed by the public. 

I am. Sir, your obedient servant. 

John C. Dalkymi’I.e Hay Bt., Admiral. 

108, St. George’s-square,, S.W., 
The other letter is addressed to the same 
paper and gives many interesting facts about 
the Boers and their own continued history of 
‘raiding.’ 

THE BOER RAIDS. 

Sir,—A correspondent states in your 
columns that the Boers own and occupy 
some eleven-twelfths of the Transvaaal. 
This is an entire mistake. I should be sur- 
prised to find that they own more than half 
that country. The acquisition of farms in 
the Transvaal by outsiders is no new thing. 
Thirty years ago there was hardly a Natal 
or Cape Colony merchant who had not his 
safes stuffed with title-deeds to them. They- 
were a drug in the market, and I have seen 
the papers of a 6,000 acre farm given for a 
bottle of gin. I have known outsiders who 
possessed over a hundred 6,000 acre farms 
at that time, and all the far-seeing ones 
held on to them. In 1806 I was for months 
riding about the country- purchasing “burgh- 
ers’rights.” These rights, which entitled 
the holder to the' freehold to a 6,000 acre 
farm, were granted to any one who resided 
for six months in the Republic. The colon- 
ial merchants used to engage loafers to go 
up and squat on some eligible farm, and 
when they had done their six months on 
one they- removed to another, and so on for 
years, obtaining a “ right ” for eaoh six- 
months’ residence. Eventually the Boer 
Government found that it had issued more 
rights than it had land to satisfy them, and 
commissions were sent out to decide on the 
claims of rival holders of rights, several, 
of which were sometimes issued in respect 
of the same area. At the end of 1866 I 
travelled for two months with one, who 
under the presidency of the same Piet Joub- 
ert, who is now known as the “ General, ” 
was to adjudicate on the rights issued for 
the districts of Leydenberg and Whk- 
kerstroom. Joubert’s method of award was 
to decide in favour of holders who were his 
friends and acquaintances. I say this advis- 
edly, for I know as a positive fact that the 
earliest-dated papers were over and over 
again rejected. My experience on this com- 
mission, and in many other dealings with 
them, led me ever afterwards to decline tak- 
ing the word of any Transvaal Boer, though 
ho swore it on a thousand Bibles. I should 
say that 30 years ago quite a fourth of the 
Transvaal was held by outsiders, and few 
parted with their holdings. The recent 
purchases are still larger. 
It is very amusing to one who is not only- 
intimately- acquainted with tho Boers them- 
selves, but with their history as well, to hear 
the virtuous indignation which they and 
their friends have poured out on poor Jamc- 
son and his "raiders.” Av by-, Sir, if there 
was ever a race of raiders upon this globe, 
it is t’ne Transvaal Boers. Their whole exist- 
ence has been one long succession of. raids 
upon their neighbours, black and white. 1 
doubt if a year ever passed since, in 1836, 
they- first entered the country, in which they 
had not a raid on hand. Putting aside their 

numerous raids on the Matabeles, the Zulus 
tke Bakwains, the Bamangwato, the Bara- 
longs, the Griquos, the Basutos, the Bapedi, 
the Shangaans, the Swazis, the “Knohnoses,” 
and many other coloured races, how often 
have they not raided English communities 
and English possessions ? In 1842 they- raided 
Durban, which had been held by the Eng- 
lish for 18 years, and besieged the place for 
26 days with 600 men ; in 1848 they- attack- 
ed the English community at Bloemfontein ; 
in 1852 they attacked and destroyed Living- 
stone’s station at Sichilis; in later years 
they seized upon what was really English 
territory in Zululand; in the early eighties 
they raided Stellaland and Goshenland, and 
had to be turned out by- Sir Charles Warren 
and in 1890 they attempted to raid Chart- 
erland, and were only- prevented by- the tact, 
patience, and bravery of this same maligned 
Jameson, who, without spilling a drop of 
blood, averted a terrible war. How different 
the way they met his “ raid ”! AVhy, Sir, 
the pot is white when you come to compare 
it with the kettle. Jameson argued the Boers 
out of English territory; the Boers Maximed 
Jameson out of theirs. 
Of course, precipitancy is to be deprecated 
but the reign of the Boer must come to an 
end. He is ignorant, stupid, and obstinate, 
and totally unfitted to exercise Government 
functions. He is crafty and deceitful and 
incapable of a straightforward action, and 
a menace to the peace of the world. He is 
as great an anachronism in Africa as tho 
Turk is in Europe. 

Yours faithfully, 

Eastbourne. 

GEORGE LACY. 

IN PRAISE OF SMOKE. 

FOR DISPELLIN'!! MALARIA. 

!Not of smoking’: but of good lionest smoke-filled 
rooms, eased down a bit short of choking, smell- 
ing of the fire and the woodland cottage. This 
most simple yet it is said effective preventive against 
Malaria has not been given the trial it seems to 
deserve from the enunciations of certain authorities 
whose statements deserve mention here in the 
columns of a paper circulated mainly in malarious 
districts. 
Dr. J. Murray, the author of that very useful 
work entitled “7/otr to live in Tropical Africa” says 
concerning the use of fire:— 
“Fires judiciously and persistently used, both 
within and without dwellings in Africa, are of 
highest sanitary value. For internal use the 
ordinary brazier, which resembles the lower section 
of an iron pot. with ventilating holes at the bottom, 
answers excellently well, as I have proved by long 
personal experience. Of course other stoves may 
be used with equal or greater advantage. 
A fire of this kind should be kept smouldering 
all night during damp cold weather to maintain an 
equable temperature in chamber, keep things dry, 
expel mosquitoes, and destroy the germs of malaria. 
Whenever (hr temperature falls sufficiently 
to make ajire tolerable, it should he used by day 
and night as a protection against ever present 
malaria. 
Fire, of course consumes all germs that are waft- 
ed through it. and in addition its pyroligneous and 
carbonic acids, other products of combustion, hurt 
or kill the germs by disturbing the equilibrium 
of their molecular structure and chemical medium. 

THE GAZETTE. 

Tyndall found that air passed over a spirit lamp 
was immediately freed from germs and other float- 
ing matter, and professor Schenk has shown that 
Micro-organisms in the air of a room move towards 
the warmed bodies by a vital process initiated by 
the stimulus of heat. Fire can thus attract and 
destroy floating microbes. 
The natives of Africa burn small fires in their 
huts day and night, during the rains. 
Burning large bonfires all night before houses, 
during the rainy season and foggy weather is also 
most useful, as I have proved by personal exper- 
ience. 
In short—Fire is the one perfect disinfectant in 
the tropics, being cheaper, safer, more effective, 
and handier than any chemical agent whether 
powder, fluid or vapour. Neither malaiia, mould, 
fog, damp or mosquitoes can permanently abide in 
a chamber where it is judiciously and persevetingly 
burned. 
I owe six months immunity in a sickly camp 
to fire. 
Dn/ness and absence of mould upon boots, walls, 
furniture, and books roughly indicate that the house 
or chamber is in good sanitary conditions in the 
Tropics. | 
Fires by night also protect the body against 
chills, *‘A man turns into his tent or* hut says 
Mr. ’Waller’’ thoroughly tired by the heat. He finds 
it impossible to bear the blanket over him. He falls 
asleep, and the cooler the night becomes, the more 
soundly be slumbers. Before 4. a. m. the thermom- 
eter falls rapidly: he awakes with a chilly feeling, 
he pulls his blanket over him. but the mischief is 
done. In 24 hours he is likely to be prostrated with 
fever. To obviate this it is wise to have a few logs 
smouldering in the huts. 
We expect the ladies would have something to 
say about Dr. Murray’s recommendations as to the 
state of a house inside with regard to its salubrity. 
After commending the floors of the huts in which 
the whole area is generally covered with a thick 
layer of ant-hill clay, or stiff yellow clay, which is 
thoroughly tempered and trodden in firmly and 
smoothly by the natives’ feet, in time becoming 
saturated with grease and oil, forming a perfect 
cement, he adds:—“Fires are kept constantly 
burning by night, and sometimes by day on the 
floors ofthe huts during thecold and raining months, 
besides which there are numerous fires lighted 
under cooking-sheds, so that the atmostphere in and 
out of doors is at times as reeky and healthy as 
that of an Irish cabin. The greasy, warm, smoky 
air of such villages is very antiseptic, and it ap- 
pears to afford protection from malaria, and the 
same thing has been noticed in Home and other 
towns with a malarial history. 
The views expressed above have recently received 
confirmation from an Italian scientist. 
M. Pallozzi asserts that he has discovered by 
repented experiments that the smoke produced by 
burning wood is a very efficacious disinfectant, 
capable of destroying the germs of disease that are 
suspended in the atmosphere, or that have settled 
on the walls and furniture, as well as those to be 
found in the substance of the tissues of which our 
clothing is composed. On this account the above- 
mentioned Italian physician believes that wood 
smoke is a very practical and economical means 
whereby to disinfect the rooms of sick persons or 
other contaminated spaces. 
of disinfection should be as complete as possible, 
it it necessary to use wood that is relatively green! 
so as obtain the largest possible amount of smoke! 
During its combustion care should be taken to keep 
hermetically closed the windows and doors of the 
room; finally, this fumigation should be renewed 
several times in succession at intervals of twelve 
hours.^ It is hardly necessary to say that the room 
should be abandoned during the * course of treat- 
ment. 

In order that this process 

March 4, 1896 

March 4, 1896. 

There is nothing surprising 

As regards the special element 

in the fact that wood smoke has an antiseptic value, 
iu view of the use that has been made of it from 
time immemorial in preserving meat: the only point 
in the question was to think of using this quality 
for the disinfection of rooms. 
of smoke to which it owes its antiseptic properties, 
MM. Scrafini and Ugaro, who have studied the' 
effect of wood smoke on the vitality of different 
microbes, have ascertained that the products of the 
distillation of tar, the soluble hydrocarbon, appear 
to be the only really active elements of smoke," the 
rest of it being merely accessory. The proof of 
this fact is that when the empyrcumatic products 
are stopped on their way by making the smoke pass 
through a long tube filled with cotton, the gas that 
comes out of the other end hinders the develop- 
ment of microbes, but does not destroy them. 
power of wood smoke appears to be beyond ques- 
tion, and the method of disinfecting dwellings by 
this very simple means will be certain to be of 
great use. 

Consequent!}', the antiseptic 

I CAUSERIES DU 

MERCREDI. 

T/ie Fabian Essays Eil. by G. Bernard 

Shaw. London 1894. AY. Scott & Co. 

THE MODERN STATE. 

f Continued.) 

Like Herbert Spencer, Cotter Morrison 
appeals from all attempts to better the condi- 
tion of the suffering to the law of the 
survival of the fittest. Like the better-known 
philosopher, he carries us with him when 
he warns us that the time has not yet come 
when we can afford to dispense with the 
punishment Nature herself inflicts on those 
who break her laws; but when he, in com- 
pany with Mr. Spencer, goes onto affirm that 
the misery in the life of the poor is due to their 
personal sins, he is making an assertion from 
which our humanity instinctively shrinks, 
and which most certainly ought not to he ad- 
vanced without the strongest evidence iu its 
support. Mr. Morrison, is of opinion that the 
good man, like the poet, is “horn not made 
his practical conclusion is thus stated : “The 
sooner it is perceived that a had man will be 
bad, do what we will, though of course he 
may be made less bad, the sooner we shall 
come to the conclusion that the welfare of 
society demands the suppression or elimina- 
tion of the bad, and tho careful cultivation, 
of the good only. Thisiswhatwedo in every 
other department: we do not cultivate curs 
and screws and low breeds of cattle.” The new 
commandment of Mr. Morrison’s gospel is 
to be deduced from his weary aphorism :— 
“Nothingisgamed by disguising the fact that 
there is no remedy for a had heart and no 
substitute for a good one.” 
It is a sad creed, hut its author has no 
hesitation in carrying it out to all its logical 
length, and proclaiming anathemas on all 
who by their noble lives^ have denied it in 
practice. He would not shrink from defend- 
ing the destruction of children born physi- 
cally deformed. Sister Dora, perhaps, did 
more harm than good, by her unrelenting 
battle with the course of what, according to 
the fatalist evolutionist, must be regarded as 
Nature. Let things alone ; let force run a- 
long the lines of least resistance : trust to 

THE GAZETTE. 

March 4,189G. 

of parts to the whole; it means that the 
Nature, and the struggle for existence mil 
welfare of the individual members _ of the 
■work out the best results: some day we may 
organism must he regulated and limited by 
become organically moral: in the mean- 
the consideration of what is required for the 
while our best policy will be to imitate tne 
health and prosperity of the whole : it means 
monsters in Miss Kendal s Ballad of the 
that the State (which is moral conscious- 
Ici/thmaurm: 
ness of the organism) must secure for every 
“Wc dined as a rule on each other 
member healthy conditions of existence, and 
What matter? the toughest survived.” 
that if such conditions are not secured the 
This extreme individualism, I venture 
health and possibly the existence not merely 
to think, will do much to discredit the view 
of the units, not merely of the State, but the 
that the aim of the State can be decided by 
whole social entity musthe imperilled andper- 
ideals of free competition analogous to the 
haps fated. To speak of a social organism is to 
■workin"' of Natural Selection in the animal 
Tonrlnnfr ot iNatural bejection in uie iumiuu .uaijjo . . p 
world.0 Nature has been held to be a word implicitly abandon it 
to coniure with in politics, but our answer | involves the recognition of the right of the 
to conjure wn ^ , ^ ^ olllv. state to intervene m all matters which touch 
to the question whether or no Nature sup- 
even most distantly the interests of its organic 
plies an ethical code must depend on 
life: it means that the Modern State is not a 
whether we are to appeal onwards to the 
mere polity, a mere mode of government, as 
final goal of evolution, or whether like Mr. 
Maine andhis school define democracy, but a 
Spencer and his school, we are to go back on 
moral person vested with the duty of provid 
the processes which hove brought us into 
ing for its subjects healthy and ennobling 
animal being, and carry into the ethical 
conditions of existence, checking and over- 
snhere that struggle for existence which is 
riding the mechanical—or more correctly 
alleged to have been the working-principle 
speaking—statical laws of Political Economy, 
of Nature in the past. The truth in regard to 
restraining the dead forces of past labour 
Nature, in the Spencerian application of the 
called Capital, limiting individual enterprise, 
term, is that she herself is neither moral nor 
taking over needful industrial functions 
inmorn] but profoundly immoral. “If,” writes 
into its own hands, and while immuring 
Prof. Huxley, “we desire to represent the 
Ueense.hy its beneficent philanthropic action, 
course of Nature in terms of human thought, 
opening up new spheres of life, moral 
and assume that it was intended to he that 
physical, aesthetic, religious, to the millions 
which it is, we must say that the governing 
who now are demoralised, dehumanised, de- 
principle is intellectual not moral: that it is 
graded by the internecine war of disorderly 
amaterialised logical process accompanied by 
competition. In a word, the evolutionary 
pleasures and pains, the incidence of which 
theory of a social organism means State 
in the majority of cases, has not the slightest 
Socialism. 
reference to moral desert. That the rain 
falls alike upon the just and the unjust, and 
that those upon whom the Tower of Siloam 
fell were no worse than their neighbours, 
seem to be oriental modes of expressing the 
same conclusion.” 

When we descend from the high philo- 
sophic ground into which the disciples of 
Darwin have carried the problem of Socia- 
lism, we are at once reminded of Burke’s 
dictum that the general public are at least 
By way of summary, then, I would sug- 
fifty years behind the times in their reading. 
gest that the plea for individualism based 
The influence of evolutionary thought on 
on the biological theory of the struggle for 
Socialism is very little understood by the 
existence is based on the tacit assumption 
opponents of the Democratic ideal, and per- 
that the laws which are said to govern man 
haps, as Socialists themselves are still great- 
as an animal are the laws which should 
ly to blame for the mis-representation of 
govern him not only in his transcendent 
their cause, I may venture to read some words 
character as a conscious being, but even as a 
from au essay by the Editor ot the Eabian 
member of society. Such an assumption 
Essays : “ The young socialist, ” .he says 
cannot for one moment be entertained. 
“ is apt to be catastrophic in his views—to 
When we speak of a social organism—and 
plan the revolutionary programme as an 
Mr. Spencer sets us the example—wo im- 
affair of twenty-four lively hours, with In- 
mediately commit ourselves to the admission 
dividualism in full swing on Monday morn- 
that the only real evolutionary view of man’s 
ing, a tidal wave of the insurgent proletariat 
position in society is not the view which 
on Monday afternoeu, and Socialism in com- 
regards him as a competing unit, who may 
plete working order on Tuesday. A man 
fight, fall, perish utterly and no matter—the 
who believes that such a happy despatch is 
toughest survives—hut a being whose highest 
possible, will naturally think it absurd and 
development can only be secured in a stale of 
even inhuman to stick at bloodshed in bring- 
correlation, co-ordination, and, thanks to 
original sin, suUordmation to tno ncaim ana ing it about. He can prove that the conti- 
original sin, subordination to the health and 
welfare of the whole body. If the struggle. nuance of the present system tor a year 
for existence is the last word of philosophy, costs more suffering than could be crammed 
the re™ sola causa of all that is and over | into any Monday afternoon, however san- 
will he, Mr. Spencer ought to regard socialist- guinary. This is the phase of conviction m 
ic legislation as hut one step towards the: which are delivered those Socialistic speeches 
ultimate destruction of weaker forms, and which make what the news-papers call good 
not cry out with such persistency “ Our copy,’and which are the only ones they as 
Legislators will ruin us, will ruin us.” Why yet report. Such speeches are encouraged 
ou^liis grounds should we not be ruined? by the hasty opposition they evoke from 
“the toughest will survive ” —that Mr. thoughtless [though perhaps learnedjpersons, 
Spencer says is an immutable law of nature, who begin by tacitly admitting that such a 
The theory of organic development, on sudden change is feasible, and go on to pro- 
the other hand, is a theory of the correlation1 test that it would be wicked. The experi- 

n. 

enced Social Democrat converts his too ar- 
dent follower by first admitting that if the 
change could be made catastrophically it 
would be well worth making, and then pro- 
ceeding to point out that as it would involve 
a re-adjustment of productive industry to 
meet the demand created by an entirely new 
distribution of purchasing power, it would 
involve also in the application of labour, and 
industrial machinery, alterations which no 
afternoon’s work could effect. You cannot 
convince any one that it is impossible to 
tear down a government in a day : but every- 
body is convinced already that you cannot 
convert first and third class into second 
class, rookeries and palaces into comfortable 
dwellings, and jewellers and dress makers in- 
to builders and bakers, by merely singing the 
Marseillaise. No judicious person, how- 
ever deeply persuaded that the work of the 
court dress-maker has no true social utility, 
would greatly care to quarter her idly on the 
genuinely productivo workers pending the 
preparations of a place for her in their ranks. 
For though she is to all intents and purposes 
quartered on them at present, yet she at 
least escapes the demoralisation of idleness. 
Until her new place is ready, it is better that 
her patrons should find dress-making for her 
hands to do, than that Satan should find mis- 
chief. Demolishing a Bastille with seven 
prisoners in it is one tiling : demolishing one 
with fourteen millions quite another.”* 
The strength of evolutionary or opportun- 
ist Socialism is that under thin but effective 
disguises it is able to work itself into being, 
while, in the meantime, those who would 
like to be its opponents are wasting their 
energies in cudgelling revolutionary men of 
straw set up for the purpose. The success 
of Socialism is no longer dependent on the 
activity'of organising secretaries : it has be- 
come a civic necessity, and as the need is 
felt so it will be supplied by men who would 
be the last to describe themslves as ideal poli- 
ticians. The fact is that the trend towards 
Democratic Socialism is now so rapid and un- 
conscious, that we are in danger of forget- 
ting the necessity under which we are placed 
of preserving the personal obligations placed 
by the Author of nature on our shoulders. 
[May I suggest hut one, albeit the most im- 
portant of instances in point ? Can it be 
doubted that if the late Government had re- 
mained in power, and had Mr. Acland main- 
tained his policy of repressing the voluntary 
schools, the system of a State-aided school 
in which the children in time would necess- 
arily be State-fed and State-clothed, would 
take from the parents the last vestiges of 
their natural duties and elevate the School- 
board into a propaganda of morals and a 
dictator of that attenuated Protestantism 
which is said to ho a part, of every-body’s 
religion but which in its bold crudity, repre- 
sents the convictions of no one whatso- 
ever]. 
The tend towards State Socialism, however, 
is beyond dispute, and as a factor it throws a 
weird light upon the way in which English 
practical men treat their convictions. In the 
teeth of gesticulating professors of Political 
Economy, despite the political power of free- 
trade Liberalism, England has been compelled 
to put forth her hand to stay competition. Mr, 

*T/ie Fabian Essays. i>. 1S3 

March 4, 189C. 

THE GAZETTE. 

own gas supply : Leeds, Bradford, Glasgow 
Herbert Spencer has summarised it all for 
and Birmingham have followed suit. In 1894, 
us in his chapter on “ The Sins of Our Legis- 
£27,966 was the total profit accruing in this 
lators, but without some detailed study' it is 
way to the last named city alone : rates have 
absolutely' impossible to form any adequate 
been reduced, the supply improved, and the 
idea of the distance we have gone in the 
condition of the workers cared for. Hudders- 
direction of State or Municipal Socialism. 
field is, with its eight hours-day's, a 
Place out of view the numerous regulative 
classical triumph for the mumcipalisation of 
acts—the Local Improvement Acts, Factory 
tramways. Glasgow, always to the fore, 
Acts, Allotments Acts, Public Plealtb Acts, 
loses annually- £1000 on her baths and 
Drainage Acts, Adulteration acts, and such 
wash-houses, but undaunted spends £3,400 a 
like—one and all involving the acceptance of 
year on parks and £1,680 on music. Every 
the Socialistic major premise, we have had 
municipality of pretentions has its free li- 
during the last forty years to witness, a 
brary, but Birmingham and Bradford, in their 
progressive nationalisation or municipalisation 
literary zeal, have voluntarily increased the 
of industry. “ Step by step ”, writes the 
rate beyond the maximum allowed by the 
historian, “the political power and political 
act. The rate-payers of Bradford are eon 
organization of the country' have been used 
tent to sacrifice £1,700 annually on the 
for industrial ends, until to day' the largest 
washing of their “great unwashed.” 
employer of labour is one of the ministers of 
So much for municipal Socialism. What 
the Crown (the Postmaster-General), and 
shall wo say' of Lord Salisbury’s proposed 
almost every conceivable trade is somewhere 
bill for excluding alien pauperism ? Is it not 
or other carried on by' parish, municipality, 
essentially labour protection ? What shall we 
or national Government itself without the 
say of the bill for the disendowment of the 
intervention of any middleman or capitalist. 
Welsh Church? Is it not the most consider- 
The theorists who denounce the taking by' 
able intervention of the State in matters of 
the community into its own hands of the 
corporate property that has as yet come 
organisation of its own labour as a thing 
within the range of practical politics ? Is 
economically unclean, repugnant to the 
there any reason why the State should con- 
sturdy individual independence of English- 
sider the stipend of Welsh parsons less sacred 
men, and as yet outside the sphere of practi- 
than the rack-rents of on absentee landlord 
cal politics, seldom have the least suspicion 
or the dividends accruing to a nonconformist 
of the extent to which it has already been 
town-councillor? What explanation can 
carried ”. Just as M. Jourdan talked prose 
an individualist afford of our Postmaster- 
without knowing it, so for the last fifty' years 
general ? Is not Bimetallism, after all, protec- 
we have been doing the deeds of Socialism 
tion pure and simple for the debtor and English 
with the creed of Individualism still on our lips. 
cotton manufacturer ? 
Mr. Sy'dney TVebb has a characteristic sketch 
And so, with an indifference comparable 
of the type of man to whom we owe our 
only' to that of the fabulous animal 
modem Socialism—the individualistic Town 
who eats his feet before he is aware of his 
Councillor who “ will walk along the munici- 
mistake, we tread the path that leads to 
pal pavement, lit by municipal gas and 
Socialism. In some ways this characte- 
cleansed by municipal brooms with municipal 
ristic habit of exploiting extreme ideas 
water, and seeing by the municipal clock in 
without professing them has its advan- 
the municipal market, that he is too early to 
tages, but, after all, when wo have once be- 
meet his children coining from the municip- 
come aware of a strain between our convic- 
al school hard by the county lunatic asylum 
tions and our practice, it is as well that some- 
and municipal hospital, will use the national 
thing should be done towards a re-adjustment. 
telegraph system to tell them not to walk 
Ws require some luminative principle to 
through the municipal park but to come by 
guide us in our action, and that is just what 
the municipal tramway', to meet him in the 
our present-day' politicans precisely are un- 
municipal reading-room, by the municipal 
able to supply. We cannot always halt 
art gallery, museum,and library', where he 
between those who “ dish the Whigs”, and 
intends to consult some of the national j 
whose last word has been for 
publications in or to prepare his next speech . those 
Trust the G. O. M: give him another 
in the municipal town-hall, in favour of the years 
nationalization of canals and the increase of ; chance.” The time must come when we 
the government control over the railway ! shall feel contempt rather than admiration 
‘ ' for the statesman whose conversion to an 
system. ‘Socialism, sir,’ he will say, ‘don’t 
' eight hours bill can he effected 
by the in 
waste the time of a practical man by your 
strumentality of a formidable deputation in 
fantastic absurdities. Self-help, sir, indivi- 
a tithe of that time. The last election, we 
dual self-help, that’s what’s made our city 
believe, w-as no protest against the march of 
what it is.”’ 
democracy, but rather the expression of a 
deep and just disgust for the orators who on 
country platforms 

Perhaps a few instances may serve to 
show bow much has already been done to- 
wards the transfer of certain industries to 
municipal control. In the way of housing the 
poor, Birmingham, Glasgow, and Liverpool 
have not only enforced sanitary regulations, j That every sophister can lime. ” 
hut have, despite exorbitant prices, purchased j The country'is sick and weary of demo- 
land and re-constructed dwellings for the dis-! peats at the poll, and bourgeois plutocrats 
placed population. The fact that in Birm- j in the house, statesmen who prove past- 
ingham the death-rate for the improved area , masters in the art of dragging the none-too 
has sunk from 83 to 21 per thousand justifies | savoury red herrings of nonconformist con- 
the further fact that over four millions | science and greed across the scent of social 
.sterling have been expended in such schemes, j reform. IVe are iu dire need of statesmen 
•Since 1824, Manchester has undertaken her ; endowed with principle. 

The herd with wild hearts and feeble wings 

“ feed with crude imaginings 

Suclrni principle as is required is that of 
State Socialism,* and the thesis I would 
leave for your discussion is the doctrine that 
compulsory co-operation under the State on 
the one hand and voluntary co-operation of 
consumers determined to boycott goods pro- 
duced under immoral conditions, on the other, 
are the industrial ideals of the future; that the 
work done for the community'and by the com- 
munity, though perhaps in some cases less 
intrinsically paying, is better than work done 
by _ the individual for the individual; that 
while, for the individual the finest life is that 
expended for the people, so for the State, 
the best government is not that which rules 
least, but that which can safely undertake 
the most collective work. I must be content 
if this paper has served on the one hand to 
suggest an approximation of Socialism to 
general philosophical ideas, and on the other 
that an examination of actual facts will am- 
ply- attest that Socialism is no mere abstract 
revolutionary dream but only a principle to 
explain and help forward a course of evolu- 
tion already' in full progress. 

W. K. F. 

* State 
Socialism. 

Socialism, of course, invoices Mtmicijlal 

[Tlie above is the substance of a paper 
read before and kindly- allowed to be printed 
by the “Zanzibar New Society".'] 

LOCAL NEWS. 

H. M. S. “Swallow" left for Capo Town on 
her way home for paying off on Monday at 
9.30 a. m. Her paying off pennant was 
flying with the gilded splendour of its term- 
inal, and as the anchor was weighed patriotic 
airs were played by her full band, the richness 
of sound in the morning air .being particularly 
affecting. Many friends saw them off and 
many' adieus were signalled from shore to ship, 
and from ship to shore. At the last moment 
before leaving the following communication 
was handed to us for publication in the 
“Gazette”. 

“The Captain and Officers of H.M.S. “Swal- 
low" take the opportunity' of their departure 
from Zanzibar at the termination of their 
commission, of thanking the inhabitants for 
the many kindnesses and great hospitality 
they have continually received during their 
stay of nearly three years in these waters. 
They have made many' friends whom they 
hope only to say au recoir to, and not good- 
bye; and their one regret is that they' are 
sorry that they are unable to make some 
slight return for all the kindness they have 
individually, and collectively received, but 
the shortness of their final stay at Zanzibaf 
must he their excuse. 
They only hope that this kindness may be 
continued to their successors, and that they 
will find their stay' at Zanzibar equally pleas- 
ant.” 
We can only repeat our expressions of 
regret at their departure we published last 
week, adding that we trust no further coast 
disturbances will protract the time between 
their leaving old friends in Zanzibar and 
their meeting still older friends “in the dear 
home-land.” 

6 

Within the past few days Zanzibar has 
witnessed two natural phenomena which 
have exercised the native mind and caused 
exceeding diversion to the youth of the place. 
On Friday evening a total eclipse of the 
moon was the occasion of much drumming, 
shouting, and noise in general which had the 
desired effect of causing the moon once 
more to unveil its face; and on Sunday 
and Monday extraordinary high tides caus- 
ed these a from the creek to cross the Mnazi- 
’mmoja road flowing down over the bank 
in a very Niagara to the distress of the 
golf-players and the serious delay of those 
bound for any s/iamhn. Even brave horse- 
men who essayed to cross the flood, quail- 
ed as the rushing waters athwart their 
course threatened to sweep rider and horse 
off their feet. 

The D. 0. A. L. s. s. “ Kanzkr ” which 
has been before the public of late as giving a 
perfect object lesson with regard to the 
promptitude ■with, which the Suez Canal 
could be blocked for a time, left Aden for 
Zanzibar on Sunday. Additional interest 
has been given to the occurrence by reason 
of the fact that Mr. Cecil Rhodes was on 
board at the time on his way down to Beira 
whence he proceeds to Mashonaland ; and it 
is a. somewhat strange coincidence that on 
his homeward journey he was subjected to 
accident and delay when on hoard the Union 
Oo’s., s. s. “ Moor." 

of the penalty in this case, will act as a 
wholesome deterrentthroughout Zanzibar and 
Pemba, where although in each ease the 
towns which contain the governing powers 
are but as limpets stuck on rocks, the talk of 
the bazaars will reach in process of time to 
the most distant recesses of the islands, in 
which however we trust no such proceedings 
obtain any hold. 

Gradually Zanzibar’s communication with 
other places is being improved and if we live 
long enough we shall get all we want. We 
are very glad to be able to announce 
that direct communication with Natal by an 
English ship all the way, is now about to 
be "effected by the B. I. Go’s, boats now 
running to Zanzibar from Bombay via Sey- 
chelles, continuing their journey to Durban. 
It is to he hoped that all here who can, wilj 
give the venture their support, so that direct 
communication between these two places 
may be carried on in friendly rivalry as re- 
"•ards comfort and speed between the ships 
of the line which has served us hitherto and 
the ships of the line which has served Zanzi- 
bar so long, and is now emboldened to 
make this new venture. 

 -:o:  

General Sir Lloyd Mathews with Mr. 
Bomanjee Maneckjee and staff left last week 
for Mombasa to select a site and to com- 
mence the building of barracks i_o accom- 
odate the 24th Bombay native infantry 700 
strong with G English officers, who will 
arrive here shortly for service on the Ccast. 
H. M. S. “ Barrosa ” is expected here to- 
morrow, or on Friday, bringing back Mr. A. 
Hardingo, H.B.M’s. Agent and-Consul Gen- 
eral. 

While the C. S. “ Great Northern ” is in 
harbour it has occurred to the friends of 
sport that we have the material for anoth- 
er of those regattas which invariably are a 
great success from the many bye-occur- 
rences which servo ns diversions for those 
nor. absorbed in the details of the race it- 
self. The shore is strong in sailing craft, 
but so too we believe is the ship, and we must 
not let slip out of sight that some time 
has elapsed since a certain Cup crossed 
the water and that every occasion ought 
to he availed of for faciliting our ability to 
bring it hack across the water again. 

"We have never played to Exeter Hall 
and we have no intention to do so, though of 
course in surroundings such as we have here, 
we have matter galore for the unpractical 
enthusiasts who gather together at. that 
centre of sanctity and righteousness did we 
think any good would be done by publishing 
the same, but there are times when to maintain 
silence is to fail in seconding the ruling of 
the Law and the voice of Justice, and to 
promote the interests of Humanity. 
The case reported in our columns of cruel- 
ty of the most atrocious kind on the part of 
an Arab owner towards a slave at Pemba is 
we suppose the worst case yet reported, and 
we should say Mr. Donald Mackenzie would 
have given much to have inserted such in 
his sensational account of atrocities at Pem- 
ba. The Arab who could go to these lengths 
has not arrived at that stage at a leap, we 
believe we are right in saying that only lack 
of evidence has prevented his being indicted 
on still more severe and horrible counts. But 
evidence is difficult to obtain at first hand, 
the power of this Arab in question was ter- 
rorising in the island, even to the extent of 
his being followed about by a thousand arm- 
ed men, and Dr. Sullivan the Vice-Consul 
of Pemba single-handed as he is, without 
At a meeting of the “Zanzibar Ncie Soeicti/'’ 
any armed forces behind him saving those 
held on Thursday last at Mr. Lascari’s 
supplied by the Wall of the island, must be 
house, a paper was read by Dr. Illingworth 
congratulated on having brought this hein- 
on “Greater Britain”, and an interesting 
ous offender to)book. Many of the uther 
discussion followed in .which the Reid. G. 
Arabs of the island have expressed the 
Dale, the Rcvd. W.K. Firminger, Mr.IIoseas- 
greatest satisfaction at his receiving his due, 
on and Mr. Lascari took part. 
while it is a matter for thankfulness that in 
It was also decided to appoint, a Sub-Com- 
Zanzibar itself the expressions of detestation 
mittee to report to the Society as to the 
of the cruelties inflicted, uttered by the 
advisability of the publication of an “Annual" 
Arabs, wore many and vehement. 
dealing with East African affairs similar to 
abroad of the news announcing the infliction : the "Antananarivo Annual which has done 

To-day the sun is exactly overhead at 
Zanzibar, and wc may in consequence shortly 
expect the rains as they follow the sun 
in its journey up the coast, as we rela- 
tively put it. 

We have great hopes that the spreading „ . 

such good service to Madagascar, and which 
from beginning as a humble periodical has 
now become the standard reference book 
concerning affairs in that island. 

LEGAL NEWS. 

TRIAL FOR 

SUPPOSED TREASONABLE ACTION. 
A case of an interesting and unusual kind 
was tried in H. M. Consular Court last 
week commencing on Tuesday and not con- 
cluding until Friday. A Beloochi, formerly 
Jemadar at the Fort in Mombasa, was charg- 
ed before His Honour. Judge Cracknall, 
sitting with three assessors (viz, Mr. Fran- 
W. Campin, Khojahs Salehmahomed 
Tharia and Sheriff Dewjee), with having 
carried letters from the rebel chief Mbarak 
bin Raschid to H. H. the Sultan asking for 
assistance in the form of munitions of war. 
The prosecution was conducted by Mr. F. 
H. 0. Wilson, while the defence of the pri- 
soner rested with Mr. Hoshanji Baburji, 
who, with no previous notice, was request- 
ed by the Judge, at the commencement of 
the case to do his best for the prisoner, who 
was at the time without counsel for defence. 
The evidence was of a most conflicting and 
contradictory nature, both sides flatly deny- 
ing the statements of each other. After a 
long and patient hearing in which every- 
thing was done to try and elicit the real 
facts and every witness called, both from 
Mombasa and here, who could throw any 
light upon the matter, the case was con- 
cluded by the Judge reading a letter received 
frbra General Sir Lloyd Wm. Mathews in 
which the General stated that the accused, as 
Jemadar of the Jlombasa Fort had borne 
a very good character, and that he was one 
of the few Beloochis who remained loyal 
at the time of the revolt of his fellow 
Iskaris in Mombasa: after which Mr. Hos- 
hanji Baburji and Mr. Wilson addressed 
the Court. His Honour, Judge Cracknall then 
briefly dealt with the leading statements 
of each of the witnesses and summed up 
the case for the consideration of the assess- 
ors. After a brief consultation the three 
assessors gave their opinion unanimously, 
that in view of the fact that no communica- 
tion had been proved to exist between the 
prisoner and Mbarak bin Raschid (the 
evidence in fact tending to quite the con- 
trary) and that the prisoner’s behaviour on 
delivering the letters was not that of a 
man in possession of a serious and criminal 
message, they did not believe he had a 
guilty knowledge of the contents of the 
letter. His Honour Judge Cracknall accept- 
ing and agreeing with this opinion, the 
prisoner was at ouco discharged. 

THE GROSS CASE OF CRUELTY 

AT PEMBA. 

On Thursday last before His Honour 
Judge Cracknall, an Arab, one Ali bin Abdul- 
la of Pemba was brought up to take his trial 
at the instance of H. B. M. Government on 
a charge of gross cruelty towards a slave of 
his, one Muftah by name. Mr. Lascari 
conducted the prosecution. 

THE GAZETTE 

March 4, 1S9G. 

March 4, 1896 

Most residents here must remember to 
have seen with feelings of horror some months 
since in front of the Agenc}7, the prostrate 
figure of a man in the last stage of 
emaciation and starvation, with two iron 
bands around his ankles driven deep into 
the flesh, -which all round that part of the 
body was in a pitiably diseased state. This 
was the slave Muftah rescued as was then 
thought almost too late from the barbaric 
cruelty of his master, the accused, and sent 
down to Zanzibar by Dr. O’Sullivan, H. B. 
M's. Vice-Consul at Pemba, for treatment. It 
seems from the evidence given by the man 
that some months ago, he along with some 
other slaves ran away and w as restored to 
his master. The latter or rather his son Abdul- 
la bin Ali, with a refinement of cruelty 
fortunately now rare in our days, punished 
him by having double irons welded on his 
flesh just near the ankles, the irons being 
connected by a bar with a clove tree between 
the unfortunate man’s legs. This confined 
him to that spot practically in one posture. I 
To prolong his misery, and save him from a 
speedy death, a cocoa-nut was given to him 
morning and evening as food and drink and 
thus chained and thus starved, the miserable 
man continued in that selfsame spot expos- 
ed to all the inclemencies of weather and to 
the ravages of insect life, for seven months. 
During that period, the accused visited him, 
but did absolutely nothing to help him in 
any way. The slave’s evidence in itself 
was not sufficiently strong to connect the 
accused with the offence as it pointed more 
strongly towards the son Abdulla bin Ali, 
but fortunately Dr. O’Sullivan’s evidence 
substantially proved full knowledge on the 
part of the accused of the state in which the 
prisoner was during his confinement on his 
Shamba. Another witness Mame Fundi 
deposed to herself also receiving practically 
a similar treatment as Muftah and to seeing 
the latter chained in the way described. Dr. 
O’Sullivan said that acting on information 
nearly seven months after the slaves had 
been restored to their owner, he found that 
Muftah was chained to a tree on the accus- 
ed’s Shamba. That when he sent a rescue 
party the next day, he found the slave 
gone, the tree to which he had been confin- 
ed having been cut down. However they 
found him in a shed hard by, which they 
broke open, and he was taken to Chake 
Chake. Muftah said that a day or so before 
lie was rescued^ the accused’s slaves cut down 
the tree he was tied to and shut him up in 
the shed where he was found. Every effort to 
remove the irons which had quite eaten in- 
to the flesh was futile and so he was sent 
on here, where they could only be removed 
by means of specially constructed appa- 
ratus. 

Dr. Charlesworth deposed to the state of 
the slave when he first saw him and that he 
had been unaer treatment ever since, his feet 
being permanently injured. He also said 
that a, month longer of the confinement 
would in his opinion have killed the man. 

This closed the case for the prosecution. 
The accused was then charged. He called no 
evidence but pleaded ‘not guilty’ saying that 
Muftah was not his slave and that he had 
never seen him before. 

THE GAZETTE. 
The learned judge in passing sentence said 
that it was a case of gross and terrible cruel- 
ty and that although the son Abdulla bin 
Ali seems to have taken the initiative in 
punishing the slave yet the accused must he 
held to be particeps criminis in that foul act 
extending over 7 months, the tortures arising 
from which he could at any time have stop- 
ped. The accused was then sentenced to 
seven years imprisonment, with subsequent 
deportation from Zanzibar and Pemba, and a 
fine of Rs. 5000. IVe are glad to say that a j 
warrant for the arrest of the son is to issue. 

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 

WEEK ending March. 2nd 180(1. 

Temperatures. 

Barometer. max. min. rain 
S.a.m. S.a.m. 24hrs. 24hrs. inches. 
25 30.071 82.8 8(5.3 80.7 0.10 
2G 00,0(15 82.2 87.0 78.9 0.5(1 
27 30.089 83.(1 87.8 80.9 0.12 
28 30.077 83.8 80.8 80.9 0.00 
29 30.0(19 83.2 87.7 80.9 0.02 
1 30.0(13 83.9 .83.1 81.3 0.00 
30.0(17 84.5 88.5 81.0 0.00 

Tuesday. Feb. 
Wednesday. „ 
Thursday. „ 
Friday. „ 
Saturday „ 
Monday.. Mar. 
Sunday . ,, 
Weekly 
means. 

:}  30.072  83.4 87.(1 80.7 
Total for \ 0.80, 
the week | 
Total Rainfall to 29th February 4.77 inches. 

F. CHARLESWORTH. 

HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 

Mornin; 

March. 

h. 
6 
7 
7 
8 
9 
10 

Afternoon 
m. 
48 
28 
9 
54 
53 
16 
1 

h. 
6 
7 
8 
8 
9 
10 
1 

m. 
29 
7 
48 
31 
22 
31 
10 

with or without Will annexed the Judge of 
this Court will proceed to bear and make a 
decree in the same on the 17th day of March 
1S96, at 10 o’clock a.m. unless an appear- 
ance in this respect bo entered and cause 
shown to the contrary. 

W. B. CRACKNALL. 
Judge 
H. M. Consular Court. 

Zanzibar, 4th March, 1896. 

NOTE:—A document purporting to be a 
Will of Visram Morani abovenamed is now 
deposited and open to inspection to the Bri- 
tish Consulate. 

AUFGEBOT. 

Ueber das Vermogen des s. Zt. in 
kefumangao verstorbenen Inders Lila 
Pundja ist am 20. Jamiar 1896 das 
Konkursverfabren erdffiiet worden. 

Konkursverwalter : Karmali Murji 

zu Daressalam. 

Termin zur Anmeldung der For- 
derungen bis Mittwocb den 15. April 
ds. Irs. 8J- Uhr Vorm. Spaeter nock 
angem»ldote Forderungen werden 
niebt beriicksiebtigt werden. 

Termin zur Verhandlung ueber die 
angemeldeten Forderungen am 16. April 
ds. Irs. um 9 Uhr Vorm, in der offent- 
lichen Barasa. Die konkursglaubiger 
kaben in dem Termine zu erscheinen 
oder einen Vertreter zu entsenden, 
widrigenfalls die von dem genannten 
Konkursverwalter bestrittenen For- 
derungen nicht berucksichtigt werden 

Daressalam, rten 30. Januar 1896. 
Der Kaiserliebe Bezirksamtmaim 
gez von. STRANTZ. 

T. W. ILLINGWORTH. 

Acting Port Officer. 

L. S. 

EXCHANGE. 

Chartered Bank. 

Bank demand drafts on London. 

16 9.' 0. Per £. 

NC-Hil HiaUoOflrft $HRC-R (jRAMi 

Met* 

Wednesday, Feb. 26 
Thursday, 
Friday, 
Saturday, 
Monday, 
Tuesday, 

„ 29 
Mar. 2 

„ 28 

i 

27 i 16 ^ 9., 0. 
10 9. j 0. 
16 I 9. 0. 
16 , 0. ;0. 
16 | 9.: 0. 

I 
1 ! 

In H. B. M’s. CONSULAR COURT 

ZANZIBAR. 

<*V-flR4ie-U WR SlRl^fWl %-U- 
rtdl qyii zr-U Uli '-frtRW aqiak $R- 
('Kc-t y=uu VR c(l«i) aiRcy i<l d 

sw Idy sRej miji die vjhi 
3 dial felis/* s4Sl "t- 
clld?i dill ell SHlSi SRiril evit* Hldllll 
^illl 

W. B. CRACKNALL, 

AT 

Probatve axd Admixistkatiox. 

ff/WR Clio 

Cause No. 1 of 1896. 

Notice of application for administration 
of Estate of Visram Morani late of Zan- 
zibar deceased. 
Take notice, that application having been 
made in this Court by Merali Visram of Zan- 
zibar for the administration of the Estate of 
Visram Morani late of Zanzibar deceased. 

Dr. P, B. NARIMAN, 

SURGEON 

AND 

SURGEON DENTIST. 

Bshlence. Near Sir Tharia Topan’s Nome. 

THE GAZETTE. 

March. 4,1893 

RKTTTR^ OF STEAMERS3 ARRIVALS 

 
.

0
9
8
1
 
y
r
a
u
r
b
e
F
 
I

 

.
a
s
a
b
m
o
M

Hhc <5i\3CttC. 

FOR ZA.]SrZIR^LR J^NJD E^ST AFRICA. 

Vol. V. No. 215] 

ZANZIBAR, WEDNESDAY, MARCH 11, 1896 

[PRICE TWO ANNAS. 

C^rams. 

Zanzibar, 4th March, 1896. 

The Italians abandoned their guns after 
the defeat by Menelik’s army. 
Mr. Goschen informed the House that it 
was not intended at present to ask for docks 
at Mauritius or Simons Town ; but to ask 
for money for the preliminary surveys. It 
was useless to propose docks until these had 
been concluded. 
There is intense excitement in Rome over 
the defeat of the troops in Abyssinia. The 
garrison is confined to barracks. The Itali- 
ans lost 60 guns, three Generals are missing 
and one wounded. 

5th March, 1896. 

It is reported that the Italian losses are 
between 3,000 and 5,000 men. It is believ- 
ed that General Baratieri desired to strike 
a blow before he w'as superseded. 

The Italian Cabinet has resigned. 
Later news states that the Italians had 
fifteen battalions engaged, General Baratieri 
commanding them. The Shoans completely 
outmanoevoured the I talians and finally charg- 
ed amid their ranks firing at the officers 
point-blank. The retreat was an utter rout, 
the losses are not stated, but a whole brigade 
under General Dabormida is missing. 

6th March, 1896. 

It is generally believed that the Italian 
defeat will weaken the Triple Alliance and 
lead to a re-grouping of the powers. 
Stormy scenes occurred at the opening of 
the Rome Parliament. The opposition de- 
mand the impeachment of Signor Crispi. 
During paradings of the people in the streets, 
windows were smashed; many arrests were 
made. 

7th March, 1896. 

Serious demonstrations are taking place in 
home. The Republican tendency is all a- 
gainst the continuance of the operations in 
Abyssinia. This feeling is renewed in the 
chiet cities in Italj-. Signor Crispi and Ge- 
neral Baratieri are bitterly denounced. A 
Ministry with Signors Ricotti and Rudini 
is probable. 
The difficulty in solving the crisis is 
owing to the popular clamour to recall the 

The Queen has started for Cimiez. 
Count A. Goluchowski the Austrian Minis- 
ter of Foreign Affairs has arrived at Berlin 
to confer with Prince Hiihenlohe on the 
situation, especially relative to Italy. The 
Koehmche Zeitumj states that Germany 
and Austria are determined loyally to sup- 
port their all}'. 
The formation of the New Italian Cabinet 
is proceeding. Signor Rudini is Premier, 
General Ricotti Minister of war, and Signor 
Brin Foreign Minister. The rest of the 
Cabinet is uncertain. 

THE WATER-HATE 

OF THE 

TRANSVAAL. 

The increasing facilities of passenger 
service up the Coast are doing much to unite 
the interests of British East Africa with 
South Africa and all that makes for it. 
Amongst many things which go to promote 
the unification of British Africa, not the least 
in influence will be found the stream of 
passengers flowing up and down, touching 
here and there, keeping up a living commu- 
nication between scattered communities, 
which are made thereby one in sympathy 
and interests. The following very excellent 
account of JUelagoa Bay the meeting-point of 
South African and East Coast life, we take 
from “Chambers's Journol.’' 
“No commercial event of modern times has 
so strongly stirred the people of South 
Africa as the recent opening of the railway 
from Delagoa Bay to Pretoria, the capital 
of the South African Republic, better known 
as the Transvaal. The President of that 
rising State had set his heart on finding to 
the sea a way that should be free from Eng- 
lish influence, and removed from the fear of 
English control. No means of securing an 
entirely independent port on the eastern 
seaboard existed, and the only possible alter- 
native was to employ the Portuguese port 
of Lourenco Marques as the desired haven 
of the Transvaal State. 
The making of the railway line was at- 
tended with serious difficulties. Southern 
Africa is, * roughly speaking, an inland 
plateau, with an average height of four 
thousand feet above the sea. On the western 
side this plateau rises from the Atlantic in a 
long and regular slope ; on the eastern it 
springs abruptly from the fringe of low 
coast-lands which lie between its base and 

troops and abandon the country. The Ery- 
threa Shoans are besieging Adrigrat. 
China refuses the French Syndicate’s offer 
of a loan, although backed by the French 
Government. Negotiations with an Anglo- 
German Syndicate are proceeding. 

9th March, 1896. 

Mons Faure has had a most enthusiastic 
reception and has reached Marseilles on his 
homeward journey; he visited the Madagas- 
car invalids. 
Anti-Senate demonstrations have been 
held in several places. 
The Budget Committee has rejected the 
Government Income-Tax scheme. 
The Colonial Committee have voted the 
abolition of slavery in Madagascar. 
Despatches from General Baldessera shew 
that the situation is most grave, he is unable 
to relieve Adrigat which is entirely sur 
rounded. The place contains a garrison of 
4,000 with only a month’s supply of provi- 
sions. An army of Dervishes threatens 
Kassala which is garrisoned by 2,000 men 
It is feared that the 2,000 troops sent to 
succour this garrison have been intercepted. 
General Baldessera himself has reached 
Asmara. 
Further details augment the gravity of 
the disaster, one Brigade has been complete- 
ly annihilated, after a heroic resistance. 
Menelik advanced no further after his victo- 
ry; he is said to have had 100,000 men 
with him. General Baldessera has been 
authorised to withdraw the Kassala garrison 
if they are endangered. The rumour that they 
are surrounded is not confirmed. 
The crisis in Rome is still unsettled; riot- 
ous paradings against the war continue in 
many places. 
Signor Ricotti is forming a Cabinet with 
the support of Signor Rudini who probably 
will be the Premier. 

10th March, 1896. 

General Baldissera has telegraphed that 
the situation is not desperate, he has thirty 
thousand men exclusive of the garrisons of 
the forts. 
The Novoe Vremya has opened a fund in 
aid of the wounded in the last engagements 
with Menelik. 
Violent Anti-American paradings are tak- 
ing place in many towns in Spain. A State 
of siege has been declared at Valencia on 
this account. 

