ilsVCH «5ll ’MIHCHt 
tirtl clSni til"5. 

4cu ciSfldl iMctW StiaiSi^ M131 
aHl^l MCHKllSilSi >HWWl 

xHlrttl ?fo(l =Hl^Wl qi?Wl 
§M!sR MW'iH i^liMSll cG.^'l >t*!W 'fl- 
41041 >i4<r<^ SiCHlb 4- 

^ ^owl«(l SIMM?. 4l**j v^- 

5i$i olid awi =H4 an^lw 

■^M ^l*i o^l. 

"TXT"ANTED in a Merchant's Office 
» » young Goanese. Must speak Swahili, 
speak and write English, and be quick at 
figures. Write X. Y. Z. C(o. Editor of the 
Gazette, stating age, previous experience etc. 
and enclosing copy of testimonials from 
former employers. 

TO LET. Near the port and in the most 
frequented street at the new house 
«f the German Club two large rooms of the 
ground floor, especially fit for dealers in 
fancy goods, stores, Europe articles &c. 

Apply to W. H. 
C/o. Office Zaneibar Gazette 

"fG"OTIGE. A meeting ol the creditors of 
Hirji Mamdani will be held in H. B. 
M’s. Consular Court on Monday the 1st day 
of March 1897, at 10 a.m. 

Zanzibar, 19th February 1897. 

H. W. de SAUSMAREZ, 

Acting Judge, 

H. M. Consular Court, Zanzibar. 

XOTICE. A meeting of the creditors of 
Aladin Kermali will be held in H. B. 
M’s. Consular Court on Monday the 1st day 
of March 1897, at 10 a.m. 

Zanzibar, 19th February 1897. 

H. W. de SAUSMAREZ, 

Acting Judge, 

H. M. Consular Court, Zanzibar. 

H. H. THE SULTAN OF ZANZIBAR’S. 

CUSTOM HOUSE. i 
< > TICE is hereby given that an assort- 
" ment of sundry Miscellaneous, Beer 
Spirits, W inns, and Tobacco, will bo sold in 
small lots on the Customs House premises on 
Saturday, February 27th at 10 a. m. 
G. E. A. CLARKE, 

Acting Collector of Customs. 

THE GAZETTE. 

htjaHWl 443 3 «4 

H^413 <V'3l<HlillHlSfl 4l4'4iy ?t (4WH 

5U5l^4i'fl si^lStleft 

4R4R syhiotRtUefl 4l4'4lhl cl 6RL4 4L4- 
fldlKl iR'HK-ll ii 43(1 
4^443 Xi'±’’}\ GH4 4^ 4r*{l feed ctHl 
%HS4d 443 "faRWHl^l 4<-{lSl 4141- 
3)41^ ll43t«3 SRiSt S<41 (4S4'{1 |Si =44X^1 
^414141 =414 a "5 4H«U 4R14RI =4^1 ‘JfUdSh 
^Sll4l (34C41 434R'fl HIC4S4 <343 i3Sl4l ll4 
clSllSl 414141 53'a^l CH^d 4311=444141 4^ 
«yi=I14«U OJ41 «t4l =4^1 HU41 (klSJ ■'415,^SU 
4 4STC4 £344141 & ctd 41° t^’fl 
=41444 Wkvs 4.Hl4i 41W11 =41441. 

H. W. de SAUSMAREZ. 

Acting Judge. 

SlM. 

=4Scfl=i a/s/, 

a/4413 41o \/>fl"j4341^ 

§441 414341 C44lG 4144R14 34153 ->443 
*4iy 5 % 3134 414141 <JUil44l =11411 «ll<3- 
3l^i fltC-ddl 151^3141 su'd 4141^1 tiHl 41 o 
lOfl 4134 1C(,v9 3J>’fl4i J331W SStR =4=1^© 
3) 41=113(1 4 =44^32 V) 41=11 yMl ^31^1 
«141 51144 iTdl’R 4151 434113! 411311 434141 
=4l4?l. 

w. Sfij. 3Gfl44. 
d 4«/^3 4141341 4351-fl. 

WWRdl 41 o 3VMI "'54341^ IChvS. 

INH. B. M. CONSULAR COURT AT 

ZANZIBAR. 

Probate and Administration. 

Cause No. 3 op 1897. 

Notice of Grant of Probate in the Est- 
ate of the late. Nanbai wife of Hashum 
Moledina. 

Pursuant to an order of H. M. Consular 
Court at Zanzibar granting Probate of the 
will of the late Nanbai wife of Hashum 
Moledina deceased, who died at Zanzibar on 
or about 5th day of November 1896, all 
creditors and others having claims upon the 
(estate of the above-named deceased arc 
j required to send in writing the particulars of 

their debts, claims, or demands, to Juma 
Sadhani and Dhala Haji Khaku the execut- 
ors named in the will on or before the 18th 
day of August 1897. 

H.W. de SAUSMAREZ 
H. M. Consular Court. 

Acting Jedge. 
Zanzibar 18th February 1897. 

NOTICE 

In the matter of insolvency of : 
Fazul Jaffer, notice is hereby given to 1 
all creditors to produce their account-books 
and prove their claims at the offices of 
Messrs Boustead Ridley & Co., auy day up 
till 10 March 1897 between the hours of 
2 p.m. and 4 p.m. After being proved the 
claims on proved debts will be satisfied 
pro rata. 

(Sd.) J. F. SLEEMAN. 

Trustee in Bankruptcy. 

HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 
Morning Afternoon 
ra. 
21 
9 
14 
44 
26 
15 
14 
A. Le. P. AGNEW, R. N. R. 

m. 
0 
44 
39 
no 
38 
9 
40 

h. 
8 
e 
10 
11 
1 
2 
3 

h. 
8 
8 
9 
10 
0 
2 
2 

Date 

Feb. 23 
24 
25 
26 
27 
28 
March 1st 

Port Officer. 

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 
WEEK ending 22nd February 1897 

Temperatures. 
Barometer max min rain. 
S.a.m. 3.a.m.24hrs. 24hrs. inches. 
JG 30.023 82.8 91.4 79.2 0.00 
17 30.00G 81.3 89.9 78.5 0.03 
18 30.031 83.3 89.7 81.5 0.03 
19 30.009 83.2 89.3 81.3 0.00 
20 30.041 81.3 89.4 78.0 0.0!) , 
21 30.022 81.0 86.8 80.3 0.03 
22 30.039 81.2 81.7 7G.9 0.011 

Tuesday Jan. 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
Monday 

U- eekly 
means. 

30.024 82.0 88.3 79.5 
Total for [ 
the week f 0.1!* 
Total Rainfall to 31st Jan. 1897. 1.58 Inches: 
F.CHARLESWORTH. 

EXCHANGE. 
Chartered Hank. 

Hank demand drafts on London. 

Ks a. p. Per £ 
Wednesday, Feb. 17 15 13. 0 ,, ., 
Thursday, 
18 15 | 12.10 „ „ j 
Friday, 
19 15 | 12. jo. „ J 
20 15] 12. jO. „ „ | 
Saturday, 
Monday, 
22 15 i 12. j 0. „ „ : 
23 15 I 12. : 0. „ „ I 
Tuesday. 

For Zanzibar and East Africa 

Vol. VI. No. 2661 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 3, 1897. 

iPRICE TWO ANNAS. 

Zanzibar, Feb. 24th 1897. 

The Mussulmans and Christians at Selinos 
have accepted the proposal made by the 
foreign Consuls of a week’s Armistice. 
Cholera has broken out in the relief 
works at Rewa and 160 deaths have occur- 
red from it in two days. 
The mortality from the plague in Bombay 
. lias decidedly decreased. 
^ Mr. Rennell Rodd formerly acting Consul 
General here is going on a special mission to 
King Menelik with an autograph letter 
from the Queen. 

26th February, 1897. 

The Foreign Consuls at Cunea telegraph 
that the situation is dangerous. Two 
thousand Mussulmans have blockaded Can- 
damos and 1000 Spanico and Selene. 
The views of Germany and Great Britain 
regarding the Cretan question have been 
reconciled through the mediation of Austria 
tmd they have agreed to hand both Turkey 
and Greece a joint declaration in favour of 
the autonomy of Crete with a Christian 
Governor but under the Sultan’s Suzerainty. 
600 Greek troops with cannon have been 
landed in the province of Candia. 

26th February, 1897. 

The First Suffolk regiment has been 
ordered to South Africa to relieve the 
mounted Infantry. 
Lord Salisbury read a despatch lust night 
in the House of Lords which was sent 
yesterday evening to the Foreign Cabinets 
embodying the policy of H. M. Government 
in the Cretan question namely that Crete 
shall be autonomous but remain a portion 
"f the Turkish Empire and if Turkey and 
Greece refused when required to withdraw 
11icir forces that the Powers would impose 
their decision by force. Lord Salisbury I 
said he believes these proposals are in accord j 
w ith the views of the other Powers. 

27th February, 1897. 

It is reported that Russia has senl a 
separate ultimatum to Athens requiring the 
Greek Government to withdraw its troops 
and fleet from Crete within three days, other- 
wise Russia will resort to reprisals of the 
sharpest nature. 

1st March, 1897. 

Admiral Rawson telegraphs that the pun- 
tive expedition quitted Benin last Monday. 
The Chartered Company’s enquiry still 
continues and Mr. Cecil Rhodes has been 
minutely examined but nothing remarkable 
has been elicited Mr. Rhodes having admit- 
ted the general facts concerning the raid. 
The report regarding the Russian ultima- 
tum is not true. The powers are discussing 
thn_ wording of the joint note to Greece 
which it is understood will give Greece four 
days to evacuate and will be presented to-day 
The Senate has passed the Bill for raising 
a fourth Battalion. 
Mazhar Bey has been sentenced to three 
years imprisonment but France and Italy 
demand a heavier sentence. 
Obituaries. M. M. Lefebore, Behaino aud 
Leroyer. 
There was skirmishing throughout Friday 
and Saturday around Retimo and Candia. 
The Mussulmans who were armed by the 
Governor were the aggressors. Several were 
killed and wounded. 

2nd March, 1897. 

A Column of the Niger Company’s force 
captured Horin on 16th February after two 
days’ fighting. There wore no European 
casualties. 

THE WEST COAST 

EXPEDITIONS. 

ii. 

THE NIGER COMPANY’S 

EXPEDITION. 

The campaign in which the Niger Comp- 
any is engaged is strictly local in the field of 
: its operations, and it is improbable that the 
advance of the fighting column will range 
in any direction further than o0 miles from 
the river. The immediate cause of the 
campaign results from quarrels between the 
two different kinds of States included within 
the borders of Nigeria. It is the custom of 
the b ulah Emirs of the Muhomedan States 
to enlarge the tributary area of their do- 
minions by perpetual raiding upon their 
Pagan neighbours. The line traced by the 
courses of the Middle Niger and the 
Binue may he taken as the limit at which 
the Pagan and Mahomedan areas of the 
territory of the Royal Niger Company effect 
an irregular junction. To the south of this 

hue Mnhomedauism has scarcely penetrated. 
The regions below it arc to the Mahomedan 
rulers of the border as tempting to raid ns 
were the Lowlands of Scotland to their 
Highland neighbours. Human cattle of the 
most valuable kind are to he had for the 
hunting, as well as varied produce of the 
fields. But these human cattle who have 
fought bravely for their independence have 
had the intelligence to place themselves 
under the protection of the Niger Company. 
It enters ns a'elause into the treaties negotiat- 
ed between the Company and the Mahomed- 
an States of the border that raidin'* for 
slaves shall not take place in the protected 
Pagan areas, and that any infringement of 
this clause shall be regarded as a declaration 
of war against the Company. Sokoto and 
Gando, to which these Mahomedan border 
States are tributary, have assisted the Com- 
pany in its work of pacification by bringing 
pressure to bear upon the Emirto induce 
them to observe their treaties. 
The time, however has come when Nupe, 
one of the most powerful of the border 
powers, will no longer be constrained. The 
territory of Nupe stretches westward from 
Lokoja along the northern bank of the 
Middle Niger to the Boussa rapids. The 
Emir commands an army of about 20,009 
meu, and he has demonstrated his intention 
of trying issues with the Company. The. 
Company, anxious to preserve the peaceful 
nature of its dominion, has for five years 
endeavoured to avert hostilities. Aggressions 
have been overlooked, everything that could 
be cone by negotiations has been done, the 
efficiency of subsidies has beeu fully tested, 
the late Emir was personally visited by tho 
Governor and appeared for a time to be 
disposed to listen to reason ; hut w ith the 
accessions of the present Emir in 1895 it 
became evident that peaceful tentatives 
j were of no avail. It was found that an intri- 
gue had been entered into by which the 
Emir of Nupii hoped to persuade the State 
of Boussa and Ilorin to join with him in an 
endeavour to expel the Christians from tho 
country. The intrigue failed fortunately of 
its immediate object, aud the company pre- 
pared for the first serious effort to maintain 
its authority by force of arms. Hitherto its 
encounters have been only with tho lesser- 
pagan tribes. Its forces have never before 
been brought into conflict with the organiz- 
ed military power of a Mahomodau State. 
In May of last year the Prince Makum or 
commander-in-chief of the Nupo army, in 
defiance of treaty agreements, crossed ’ the 

THE GAZETTE. 

river to Kubha, where with a force estimated 
at 1,000 cavalry and 10,000 infantry, he 
formed a permanent camp and raiding cen- 
tre, with the result of striking panic into all 
the surrounding populations. At this point 
he awaits the drying of the laud in the pre- 
sent season to carry out operations on an 
extended scale against the Protected Pagans 
of the South. The proceeding constituted 
an act of war which left the company no 
alternative but to resist or to abdicate its 
authority. The Emir himself is reported 
to have joined him with a further force of 
several thousand men. The camp thus 
formed is.of the nature of a town, of which 
the houses are built of mud and within the 
precincts of which a large non-combatant 
population consisting of women, children, 
and slaves are herded together. A low 
calculation would give at least two non- 
combatants for every soldier. The numbers 
for whom provisions must be supplied n- 
mount presumably to a total not far short 
of 50,000. 
ft is against this unwieldy concentration 
that the little force of the Royal Niger 
Company marched on January 0. The dir- 
ection of the march would probably be due 
westward over high rising ground through 
fairly open country covered with tall dry 
grass which the troops would burn before 
them as they went. Their moat likely 
scheme of operations would, be to endeavour 
to skirt Knbba to the south and attack from 
the .‘outh and west, having for their object 
to prevent a coalition between the forces 
of Nupe and florin and to drive the Nupe 
army towards the river, of which the pass- 
age should bo held by their own flotilla. 
Such u scheme involves the manifest risk of 
being themselves taken between the two 
forces of Nupo and florin and will no doubt 
have been modified by the circumstances 
which they may have found awaiting them. 
Of these circumstances, in the absence of 
direct information, we can known nothin, 
definite in this country. The best grounds of 
hope which wo have for the success of so 
daring an enterprise lies in our knowledge 
of the extreme care with which the whole 
scheme has been planned and matured. It 
is the custom of the Mahomedans to attack 
by night. Blue lights specially con- 
structed so as to burn for ten minutes at a 
time have been taken in sufficient quantity 
to turn night, if necessary, into clay. It is the 
custom of the Mahomedans to trust almost 
entirely to the efficacy of cavalry, barbed 
wire wound upon reels, which in their turn 
arc mounted upon sets of wheels swift and 
easy to manipulate, have been provided for 
the purpose of forming a ready obstruction 
to the onset of horsemen. The white officers 
who accompany the force are in a proportion 
of not less than one to every ‘.10 men. Ma- 
chine guns will for the first time be brought 
to bear on forces accustomed to meet toes 
armed at best with bows and arrows. 
BENIN AND ITS KING. 

Very little is known accurately of thei 
country under the rule of the King of Benin, I 
on the western limits of the Niger .Vroteeto-1 
rate. As it is approached from the coast,1 
the country is perfectly flat, traversed hr1 
many creeks ami covered with dense forests, 1 

up to and beyond the capital. This town 
n known to natives as Ubini and some- 
times Addo, but must not be confused with 
a town about 50 miles further inland marked 
on the map as Ado. The most important 
subordinate tribes of the neighbourhood are 
the Jekris on the creeks to the south-west 
and the Sobos in the bush country to the 
east. The Mahins, consisting chiefly of an 
inoffensive fishing population, lie on the 
west between the Benin country and Lagos. 
Of these tribes the Jekris are the most war- 
like, and at one. time under their chief Nana 
they appeared likely to become the dominat- 
ing power. It was found necessary in 1894 to 
send a punitive force against Nana, who 
was deposed, and the Jekri people were re- 
duced to obedience. In other parts of the 
back country the policy of controlling the 
more turbulent chiefs and developing direct 
trade with the interior has been successful, 
but in the Benin district advance has been 
rendered impossible by the attitude of the 
King and the savage system of pagan 
theocracy of which he is the representative. 
The rule of the King is of terror. The 
people are brutalized by the habits of 
human sacrifices, torture, and cannibalism. 
As a race they are reported to be indolent, 
cowardly, and chiefly occupied with agricul- 
tural pursuits and the production of palm 
oil. Occasionally the King of Benin raids 
the Sobos for slaves. The district abounds 
in rubber, gum copal, gum arabic, tumeric, 
incense gums, fibres, mahogany, and hard 
woods. Under fetish rule native traders 
may not deal in gum copal and palm kernels. 
The King claims half the ivory obtained in 
his dominions, and declines to trade it with 
Europeans, keeping it to purchase Soho 
slaves. When the supplies are less than he 
desires he raids the Jekri caravans. These 
conditions naturally dispose the surrounding 
tribes to view without displeasure any 
measures which may tend to control his 
power. 

Mr. D. I’. Bleasby, a trader who has had 
10 years’ experience in the Benin district 
and has been with three expeditions to 
Benin city, having had repeated messages 
from the King to visit his town again, says 
that if the white men did not actually die 
in the fight which must have taken place 
when the King's men came down on the 
expedition, then he has every faith in their 
safety. His chiefs keep the King in ignor- 
ance of many things. When the King 
ascends the throne of Benin he goes in to 
his compound, and is supposed never to leave 
it alive. The King is, for a negro, a very 
pleasant-faced man. His eyes, though rather 
small, have a laughing expression. He has 
a short, curly beard, and altogether his face 
shows remarkable intelligence. In stature 
he is about 5ft. Gin. The Portuguese in 
the old days lived in Benin city, and their 
presence are observable in many places. 
Under the auspices of the Liverpool 
Geographical Sociely, a meeting was recently 
held to hear some experiences of Benin. 
Mr. James Pinnock, who presided, said | 
he had lived in Sierra Leone ten years 
and had had only ten day’s sickness. The 
most powerful chief ever known in Benin j 
"■as AMuma, the late father of the deposed 
chief Nanan, who had about 3,000 slaves . 

March 3, 1897. 

and innumerable wives. He once went on a 
visit to him and to dine with him, and saw 
a large number of men all handcuffed and 
chained to a longitudinal pole running 
round the building, standing about 3ft. from 
the ground, all with their ears cut off with a 
razor. Much as they might regret the re- 
cent disaster much good would result from 
it, for many hundreds of human beings 
would be annually spared crucifixion ami 
torture, while the country would become 
settled, peaceful, and prosperous. Mr. T. B. 
Auchterlonie, who had twice visited Bonin, 
read a paper on the country and its people. 
As he approached Benin he passed 30 or 40 
dead bodies on each side of the path in all 
stages of decomposition, the idea being to 
impress those approaching the town with 
the power of the King. Near the city the 
ground was thickly strewn with the skulls 
and bones of sacrificed human beings. The 
country round was very fertile and capable 
of much cultivation, but the natives did 
nothing beyond growing yams and plantains. 
The climate appeared much healthier than 
at the coast. It was impossible for any 
one who had not been in the country to 
realize what the natives had to put up with, 
but they never showed a sign of resentment, 
being in mortal terror of the Ju-ju men, 
who were all-powerful. 

AFRICAN PROGRESS. 

ENGLISHMEN AT WORK. 

The Uncrowned Monarch of the Nigru. 
Mr. Stead in the “Review of Reviews’’ says:  
While Mr. Rhodes is on the high seas, 
hasteninghome to face the prosecution with 
which he is threatened, another notable 
Englishman has landed in Africa, where 
he will leave his mark or his corpse. The 
return of Sir George Goldie to the. Niger 
begins an epoch of West African history. 
Sir George Goldie is one of the Empire- 
builders whose work is as silent and secret 
as that of Mr. Rhodes is the reverse. From 
his office in Mowbray House—he occupies 
the room immediately below my sanctum, 
and looks out on exactly the same scene as 
as that which lies below my office windows— 
Sir George Goldie has brooded for years 
over the work which he is now in the field 
preparing to accomplish. In the last conver- 
sation I had with him, immediately before 
his departure, he spoke with deep earnest- 
ness of the perilous quest on which he was 
starting. A quiet man, who has set his heart 
on delivering forty million human beings 
from an infernal slave trade, ho made no 
secret of the arduous nature of the task on 
which he was about to embark his fortunes 
and those of the Niger Company. “We 
have done much,’' he said, “of which fortu- 
nately nothing has been heard. It is possible 
to lay the foundations of Empire without 
being disturbed, where the climate is too 
deadly for newspaper correspondents to live. 
I now go to complete the work. We shall 
put it through, but make no mistake, we 
are putting our fortune to the touch, to win 
or lose it all ! ” I heartily hope he will win 
it all, but it is a dangerous business, and 
we cannot afford to lose either the Niger or 
its uncrowned king. 

March 3, 1897. 
The Asiatic .Sword in Africa. 

Thanks largely to the valour of the hand- 
ful of 58 Sikhs whom Sir H. (1. Johnston 
brougiii iiutii -mulct. iu yadsaiaiiQ, UUeKusi 
the Angoni chief who had risen iu revolt 
against an authority that suppressed slave 
raids and massacres, bus hp.,„ HefeeWl 
Chekusi was captured and executed—a fate 
which he probably preferred to the misery 
of imprisonment. The little expedition of 
half u vaux..;i!i oiaacC aaacoif, one mountain 
gun, 58 Sikhs and 200 native troops, march- 
ed for nine days over regions so hot that 
the ground blistered the feet of the native 
porters, mey passed on their way through 
the ashes of burnt villages heaped with the 
mutilated corpses of the massacred villa»ers 
who hud fallen victims tn he V°n ’t nri rxP I 
Chekusi. Then the little force °met and 
defeated the Angoni impi, which was some 
thousands strong, and peace now reigns in 
Angoniland. More improbable things have 
happened than that the British officer will 
yet rule all Central Africa by using tho 
sword of Asia, which our position in India 
enables us to unsheath without an effort. 

England in Africa. 

THE GAZETTE. 

i what is likely to be a most flourishing trade 
jin tea in that gallant little colony ? English- 
! men. And last on this list of agricultural 
i pruuucia, who were tue urst coliee-pianiers 
in Central Africa? A dogged little band of 
Scotchmen. Who constructed the first 
railways in Africa, which brought prosperity 
to Egypt and turned Cape Colony from a 
little red patch on the southern extremity 
of Africa into a vast empire ? Who encircled 
LOO Wuuiu CuiiijUiOiit Oita telegraph cuulus, 
and conceived the carrying out of the bold 
project of traversing Africa from south tu 
north by telegraph wires ? Who put the first 
steamers on riie iNiger, on the Zambesi, on the 
Congo, on the Nile, on the Gambia on 
almost every navigable African river ? 
Wv o*lf oRmon 
It is not a record of which we have cause 
to be ashamed. 

SOUTH AFRICAN^ 

AFFAIRS 

MR. COST INTERVIEWED. 
RHODES, RAID AND RAND. 

3 

tlmv are. Mr Cust holds high opinions of 
Rhodesia as an agricultural country. Of 
gold ho could give no opinion being without 
cxpuniiucu of gold mining, tie considered 
that the whole of the African native ques- 
tion is one. which requires the most 
(Uieful handling, and will tax the energies 
of South African politicians for many rears 
to come, being of infinitely greater ‘ magni- 
tude than the Anglo-Dutch difficulty, and 
piulnvuiy without patallel or precedent in 
the history of the world. Mr. Cust has 
been accompanied iu his journey by Mr. 
Lionel Decle, the well-known Aft •ir.nn tra- 
velier, who served with Cast on the “Pall Mall 
Gazette,’ and whoso name came prominently 
before the public through his bringing to 
HoLt the murder of Mr. Stokes on the 
Congo. 

THE COMMITTEE OF ENQUIRY. 

Mr. Henry Cust, in an article published in 
the New Review, strongly argues iu favour of 
dropping the Chartered < toimnittee and 
declares that South Africa, except Pretoria, 
is wholly against it. 

The Dark Continent, it will he seen, 
occupies more than its fair share of the 
attention of the world, and especially of 
England. This is but natural, for, as* Sir 
H. H. Johnston has just reminded us the 
Briton has played the leading role in the 
exploration and development of Africa. The 
following passages from his address are well 
worthy of being borne in mind :— 
“ All the great rivers and lakes of Africa 
have been mode known to tho world mainly 
by the exploration of British subjects. 
Englishman, Irishmen, Scotchmen,'or Welsh- 
men, first discovered and made an actual 
fact the existence and approximate dimen- 
sions of most of the African lakes. The 
name of Livingstone is indissolubly connect- 
ed with the mapping of the Zambesi, from 
its source to its mouth. Other Englishmen 
first explored and mapped most of the Afri- 
can rivers. Mungo Park is acknowledged 
by all men to have been the first to place | 
the Niger river accurately on the map. | 
Stanley is the hero of the Congo. -As regards 
the Nile and its systems, what geographical 
work done by other Europeans can be com- 
pared with the researches of Ihuce, Pethe- 
rick Baker, Speke, and Grant ? Who were 
the first to turn the alfa grass of North 
Africa to the practical use of making paper? 
Englishmen. Who first created palm-oil 
as a trade product, now being sold annually 
for millions of pounds ? Englishmen. It 
was Englishmen like Sir John Kirk, Sir 
Alfred Moloney, and others, who started or 
developed the trade in rubber and gums on 
the East and West Coasts of Africa. English- 
men, first of all, have developed the culti- 
vation of cotton in the Zambesi countries 
and in Egypt, and indigo on the Niger. 
Who first discovered diamonds and gold ? 
Englishmen. And the nitrates, which it is 
hoped may yet add to the exports of Egypt ? 
An Englishmen, Mr. Eloycr. Who first 
stimulated the cultivation of the ground-nut 
in the Gambia, which now produces nearly 
all our finest olive oil, quietly manufactured 
at Marseilles ? Englishmen. ‘ Who introduc- 
ed the tea plant into Natal, and created 

Mr. Henry Cust, late editor of tho Rali 
Mall Gazette, formerly M. P for Stamford 
Division of Lincnolshire, in the course of an 
interesting conversation with Reuter’s agent, 
gave it as his opinion, as a result of careful 
observation and close contact with leading 
men that there had been a steady revulsion 
of feeling in Mr. Rhodes’s favour for some 
time past amongst the Dutch of the Cape 
Colony. Apart from the return of their 
former admiration of Mr. Rhodes, he thought 
that the sympathies of liquor producers of the 
Cape had been alienated from the Transvaal, 
owing in a great measure to the latter’s 
recently-introduced Liquor Law. With 
regard to theEnglish Parliamentary Enquiry 
into the Chartered affairs, ho was strongly 
of opinion that the Cape Enquiry had done 
all that was necessary, and had located the 
blame for the Raid; and no good purpose 
could be served by going on with the House 
of Commons Inquiry. With the exception 
chiefly of Pretoria, he found that the people 
were apathetic on the subject, and felt that 
if the Enquiry were dropped it would be 
merely a nine days’ wonder. President 
Kruger, however, he found very unrelent- 
ing, and keenly anxious that Mr. Rhodes 
should he punished. In the event of the 
Commons Inquiry being proceeded with, 
Mr. Cust expressed his willingness to give 
evidence, having in tho course of his travels 
become possessed of information which 
could not fail to have bearing on the result 
of the Committee’s work. With respect to 
the Uitlander question in the Transvaal, Mr. 
Cust thinks that a modus vivendi might be 
found by the Raad granting just what is 
necessary for Johannesburg existence 
without conceding the Uitlanders full 
demands—in sb®rt, a policy of mutual con- 
cession. Mr. Cust, however, emphasised the 
fact that the view of the TJitlander living 
on the spot and hampered in his work and 
life is necessarily more urgent than that of a 
home politician, and he is firmly convinced 
that radical changes and ruptures will ensue 
on the death of President Kruger, whose 
strong personality alone keeps things as 

MAURITIUS NEWS. 

Per Mcssageries Maritimcs s.s. “ Djvmnah." 

Mauritius, 39th January 1897. 

We are now passing through the worst 
period of our hurricane season, and have 
had one or two cyclones off the island 
since my last letter, which fortunately gave 
us abundant rain but without making the 
island feel the bad effects of a wind storm. 
Things generally in the Colony are not 
encouraging owing to the low-prices of 
sugars, consequent on the beet-root compe- 
tition. When will it end ? 
I offer no excuses in giving you the follow- 
ing details of the 

Loss of the Troop-ship “Warren 

Hastings” at Reunion. 

The “Djemnah,” which arrived here 
from Reunion on the 18th inst., brought 
the news of tho loss of tho above transport, 
with the 60th Rifles aboard, on tho 13th 
on the rocks off St. Phillipe, Reunion, while 
on her voyage from Bombay and the Cape 
to this. Fortunately only two lives were 
lost, although the troops were not got ashore 
without difficulty, the major portion of the 
shipwrecked soldiers landing by a lino from 
the fore-part of the vessel. It seems the 
“Warren Hastings” struck in water suffi- 
ciently deep to permit of her running up 
close to the land. The B. I. Co'S Steamer 
“Lolpoora” happened fortunately to be 
at Reunion when the accident happened, 
and she brought over the troops here on 
the 18th in good health; but, greatly- 
requiring rest, after the danger and excite- 
ment they had passed through—Our late 
Governor, Sir H. Jerningham, who happen- 
ed to be at Reunion, eu route to England 
on the loth January, at once left for St- 
Phillipe, with his usual energy in order to 
endeavour to be of use. The wreck occurred 
at about 3 a.m, anci the landing began 
in perfect order, as soon as it was light. Two 
natives who leaped over-board through fear 
lost their lives and about a dozen persons 
were injured and were received with great 

4 

by the Mayor of St. Phillipe. Near 
kxi><ln>'ss 
mu Hull, a large number o£ 
tlie xl 
had formerly 
small constructions which 
been labourers’ quarters on an abandon- 
ed Rimnr Fstate were available, and 
these were at once handed over to Captain 
Holland who lodged the soldiers in them, 
these sleeping in their wet clothes before 
fireo ..huh they lighted. Cart-loads of 
provisions were sent to the wrecked people 
by the French authorities, who showed 
great- consideration and kindness.— 
') ne nows o£ the wrecked vessel touched 
a jetty nt Ft. Phillipe and the steamer is 
now lying over on her side completely 
lost All the passengers and crew were very 
much touched by the kindness of the Bour- 
bon people. 
The Captain of the vessel believed that 
he was 7 miles from land at the moment of 
the wreck which is attributed to the 
currents On the previous day it had rained, 
and he was unable to get his bearings.— 
After all had got ashore some nn-success- 
ful efforts were made to land some valuables 
and baggage—the cause being that the 
sea rose and prevented communication. 
The troops are quite enthusiastic on the 
score of the kindness extended to them by 
the French authorities and Colonists, and 
they did not fail to show their appreciation of 
this on any occasion which presented itself. 
As the B.I. Str. “Lalpoora” was leaving Re- 
union with the troops she passed the Str. of 
theMessageries Co. “Bjemnah” lying off the 
“Pointe des Collets,a bugle was sounded 
and the band of the ship-wrecked soldiers 
struck up the Marseillaise, whilst hundreds 
of soldiers climbed the rigging and cheered 
the French boat. The French packet lower- 
ed its flag thrice in acknowledgment.— 
Immediately after landing the troops the 
'-‘Lalpoora” returned to Reunion with a 
number of carpenters and sailors onboard to 
endeavour to effect salvage. The Steamer 
came buck here on the 26th with about 20 
tons of baggage and the ship's boats. A 
groat deal of Regimental plate and 
some v.iluuble private jewellery belonging to 
the officers is reported lost. 

The plague in India—sensation- 

caused HEHE. 

We have had some sensational meetings 
here caused by the fears of a section of the 
inhabitants who were under a good deal of 
■excitement, caused by recent events in Bom- 
bay . It was endeavoured to get a law passed 
rendering it optional for the Sanitary au- 
thorities to prohibit the landing of all goods 
from India, including rice. Our position 
here is an exceptional one, Mauritius pro- 
ducing no food supplies, and the effect of such 
legislation would be to send up prices of food 
in tht island to famine rates. A special 
session of the Legislative Council was 
held to consider the matter,and fortunately 
the cooler-headed portion of our community 
w-us able to carry the day after a statement 
from the officer administering tho Govern- 
mem to the effect that our stock of rice was! 
barely equal to a month and a half’s con- j 
sumption, and that the law if passed would ! 
render famine here imminent. A inajority 
of our Legislators then voted against legal 
power being given to the Sanitary body to 
prevent food being landed in the island.— 

THE GAZETTE 

New Agricultural products. 

The danger threatening our sugar cane 
plantations by the bounty-fed beet root sugar 
is beginning to open the eyes of our agricultur- 
ists to the necessity of turning their 
attention to other possible agricultural pro- 
duce. I may mention the following, the 
importance of which here muv he token in 
the order in which they are given: vz :—■ 
Aloe fibre—grows well and leaves a 
fair profit at anything over Rs. 215 per ton. 
» AN ILL A giOVVa vVCiA. a, nil icitVCS IL ptemu ilL 
Rs. 9 per lb. (Now selling at about Rs. 18) 
Tea—Our produce is pronounced first rate 
in the English market but costs about Rs. 
U.36 per lbs. 
Coffee—Formerly produced here to some 
extent. Planting abandoned in favor of the 
sugar cane; but it is believed could be suc- 
cessfully resumed.— 

Cotton—Same remarks as coffee— 
Cloves- do do—— 
Two Newspapers started in Madagascar. 
The Revue de Madagascar and the Vao 
Vao Frantsay-Malagasy or Nouvelliste 
Franco-Malgache have just issue their first 
numbers at the Capital of Madagascar in 
the French interest. 
I believe I am correct in saying that the 
French authorities exercise a severe censor- 
ship over the press in Madagascar at the 
moment and that no Newspaper would be 
tolerated that favoured English views. 

Business Matters. 

Crystallised sugar such as would suit 
your place is worth about Rs.9.70 to Rs.10 
per 50 Kilogs say pr. fair to good quality. 

Shipping. 

There is very little demand for sailing 
vessels and all our sugar is taken away by 
the regular steamers.— 

WEST COAST NEWS. 

n. m. s. '“Phcebe” and 

The Firing on British Ships. 

News received at Liverpool shows that 
her Majesty’s ship Phicbe has made an 
inquiry into the firing on British ships by 
the Liberian gunboats. The Phoebe took 
down Colonel Cardew, Governor of Siena 
Leone, to Monrovia, the capital of Liberia. 
The Liberians alleged that the steamers 
violated regulations of the country. The 
captains of the steamers on their part alle- 
ged that tho laws and regulations were so 
often changed that even the Liberian naval 
officials did not seem to agree as to what- 
they really were. The captains further alle- 
ged that when they were approaching a 
port of entry they had been prevented from 
communicating with the shore or were tired 
on. The Liberians were held to be in the 
wrong in first firing a shot at the vessels, 
and this practice has been stopped. The 
steamers on their part are only to go to ports 
of entiy. Strange to say, the steamer Loanda 
which arrived off Cape Palmas on the 25th 
ult., could not obtain communication with 
the shore. She had a large number of 
Krooboy passengers for Rocktown and other 
places, not ports of entry. She called at Capo 
Palmas, the port of entry next to Rocktowb 
to arrange about the Customs duty, so that 

she might getpermission to call at the var- 
ious ports. She renuuned off the port till 
the next morning, the Liberian^ not taking 
the slightest notice of her signals. The 
c.mtntn then loft and landed his passengers 
at Rocktown. 

BLACK AND WHITE 
The Future of South Africa.—Mr.W. 
F. Bailey writes an article in the National 
Review on the "Native Problem in South 
Africa.” He sums up as follows:— 
The genera] conclusion may be drawn that 
South Africa, as a whole, will never be a 
white man’s country in the same scufc as arc. 
the United Statesof America,Canada, Austra- 
lia, or New Zealand. The hulk of the labour of 
the community will not fall on the Europe- 
an inhabitants. The country will afford no 
outlet for the teeming, labouring populations 
of England or the Continent. Skilled lab- 
ourers and artisans will doubtless find em- 
ployment there, but the pick-and-shovel 
man had best keep out of the country. It 
will rather resemble India and Ceylon than 
Australia and New Zealand. Europeans 
will always find in it an outlet for their en- 
ergies, an opening for the employment of 
their capital, and an opportunity for adding 
to their wealth. Its climate is farmore suitable 
for them than that of India, and were South 
Africa without its native races it might have 
a career like unto that of Victoria or New 
South 'Wales, Colorado or California. But. 
we must judge of the future of the country 
by the tendencies that environ it, and its 
destiny is limited and controlled by racial 
conditions from which there is no escape. 

LATEST PLANTING 

NOTES. 

Oil (Castor).—Has decidedly improved 
this week, the quotations for French oil 
having now recovered a considerable portion 
of the decline that occurred towards the end 
of last year. The French Government are 
about to prohibit the landing of all merch- 
andise coming from plague-infected locali- 
ties, and as the Marseilles oil mills practi- 
cally depend upon the supply of East Indian 1 
seed, it is not improbable that several of 
them may have to close for want of raw 
material. The present prices of French 
castor oil on the spot very a good deal—viz 
first pressings in barrels from 30s. to-82s.: f. 
second pressings, 28s. 6d, to 29s. 6d. per cwt., s 
and medicinal oil from 4d.to 4Jd. per lb., I 
acoording to packing. Italian tasteless oil 
in tins or cases offers at lid. to 5d. per lb., ac- 
cording to quality. From ^Marseilles, how- 
ever, higher quotations are given for ship- 
ment—viz., from 32s, to 32s. 6d. for first 
pressings, 29s, 6rf. to 31s. for second, and 33s. j 
to 34s. per cwt. for medicinal oil, all f.o.b. 
It is said that not only are tho present stocks 
of castor seed and oil in India extremely 
small and difficult to get to the shipping 
ports on account of the interruption caused 
to business by the plague, but the plants | 
are described as having suffered much from 
last year’s drought, and the prospects 
of the crop are extremely poor. It 
is worthy of nete that early in February- last 

March 3, 1897. 

March 3, 1897. 

THE GAZETTE 

year oil of first pressings offered in Marseil- 
les at 18/. per ton, and that large sales for 
shipment were being made by importers in 
anticipation of still lower rates. The high- 
est quotation was at the end of November. 
Fast Indian oil is quoted at 4Jr7 per lb. for 
first and 3-1//. per lb. for second quality. 

Spices.—The demand for Zanzibar Cloves 
continued during the early part of the week, 
and several thousand bales were sold at 
prices ranging up to 2§f/. per lb. for March. 
May; 2^d. per lb. for April-June, and 2Jd 
Per lb. for June-August delivery. On Tues- 
day, however, the price began to decline, 
and 2|d. per lb. was accepted on the spot 
(short prompt). The following are the 
closing quotations to-day : Delivery March- 
May, buyers 23”:/., sellers 2fi/.; April-June, 
buyers 2^/., sellers 2,6<Z.; June-August, 
buyers 2J|(/.j sellers 2321/., For shipment, 
February-April buyers ‘A\d., sellers 23
2^, 
pei lb. eif. terms. 

Chillies are dearer. At auction ordinary 
dull Zanzibar sold at 30s., fair Sierra Leone 
at 35s. per cwt. 

9

Vanilla.—The new season for Mexican 
vanilla has now commenced in New York. 
Brices show an excellent demand, and are 
still tending higher, a few cases of fair 
quality having been sold at the parity of §10 
per lb., which is the highest rate paid for 
this kind of vanilla up to the present. It 
is said that the prospects are all in favour of 
a further rise, provided the Mexican culti- 
vators show themselves firm in their quota- 
tions. The London market is firmer, and 
several parcels of ordinary quality offered at 
the last auctions have since been resold 
at 
an advance of from 2s to 3s. per lb. 
From " Chemist and Druggist.” Peh. 17th. 

THE OPINION AND THE FACTS. 

First let ns have what the doctor said, then the 
facts upon which he based his opinion, and 
finally we may ask whether the facts justified 
that* opinion. 
The doctor’s opinion was this, “ The man is 
suffering from chronic inflammation of the brain. 
The facts as set forth subsequently by the 
j>atient liimself under oath, and also verified by 
careful investigation, are these:— 
lu August, 1880, the first symptoms of disease 
appeared. He had a bad taste in the mouth, and 
a thick, slimy phlegm covered the tongue and 
teeth, so that he was often obliged to wipe it out 
with a handkerchief. He had no appetite, and 
after eating the simplest thing lie felt great 
oppression, and pains at the sides and chest, 
Later on he was seized with dizziness and dread- 
ful pain in the head, the back of the head being 
swollen, and so hot that it seemed on fire. 
This paiii in the head grew worse, until the 
patient fancied his head must hurst; and, as it 
was, he nearly went out of his mind with the 
agony of it. He got little or no sleep night or 
day, and as he could take practically no nourish- 
ment—that is, nothing at all equal to the needs 
of the body—he gradually fell away until there 
was scarcely anything left of him but skin and 
brine. After a time a hacking cough fixed upon 
him, and he constantly spat up much matter. 
A t this point his malady had some of the indica- 
tions of consumption. 
For a considerable time Mr. Manning (the 
patient’s name) was confined to his bed, and for 
nearly a vear was unable to leave the house. As 

Count Oourtenhove who recently spent 
some three months in Zanzibar on his way 
to South Africa has just been elected a mem- 
ber of the Rand Club, Johannesburg. 
. Ibe portals of this exclusive concern, a 
kind of Stock Exchange inner circle, are 
guarded by an entrance fee of a hundred 
guineas. 
Count Courlenhove intends before Ion" to 
return to Zanzibar for a second visit. ° 

a rule he wmild rise from his bed about noon,,ind proceedings of the Society nt home in the 
show his* wX. Js6 \TC°neei'merely say ‘[hat he j * za“^ion 6 al of 
Could only _c,0Ss the room by taking hold of the bv Ml, Eaftoe'Tea'll of Mr.‘ ctzon’s reeeS 
furniture. The physician who attended him for 
reply to a deputation from the Society of 
one year said that Mr. Manning had chronic 
Friends fills eight pages, a sketch of the 
inflammation of the brain, and recommended the 
results of granting compensation to the West 
application of poultices and fomentations to the 
Indian Slave holders and the continuation 
head. 
of Slavery under the name of “Apprentice- 
“After having been under the doctor’s treat- 
ment for a year,” says Mr. Manning, “I was 
ship” by the same writer, filling' twelve 
no better, and he said he could do nothing more 
pages, deserves thoughtful study, and is 
for me. 1 then had another doctor, who said my 
commended by the author to the’' attention 
case was hopeless, mid nothing could be done for 
of the “pro-Slavery officials of Zanzibar”. 
me. Our Rector’s daughter got me several bottles 
We are not aware such exist, wo suppose 
of medicine for consumption from London, but 
the Fesiina lento advocating members of offi- 
it did no good, and I lingered , on in the same 
cial life here were those really meant, the 
state year after year. I was in such pain that 
distinction is not without difference. 
I often wished it. might be God’s will to take me. 
Several times it was reported that I teas actually 
dying. 
“In November, 1892, Mrs. Franklin, wifeof tho 
coin merchant, gave me a bottle of medicine 
which she hoped might do me good. It was 
called Seigel’s Syrup. I had no faith in it, but I 
began taking it. In a week I felt a little better. 
My head was easier, I had some relish for food, 
and what I ate agreed with me. So I kept on 
with it, and gained a little every day. From that 
time I never looked behind me, and soon gained 
two stone in weight. I am now quite strong, and 
am bank to my work. I can eat any kind of food, 
and am free from all pain. But for this medicine, 
Soigel’s Syrup, I believe I should to-day be in my 
grave; and so great is my desire that others may 
know of the remedy that saved my life, I give full 
permission to the proprietors to publish my case 
if they think best to do so.” 
The above statement is condensed from the 
more extended legal one in order to save space. 
The other, however, will soon he published in full 
in another form. This is signed by Mr: Henry 
Delph Manning, of 8, High Street,! Hilgay, near 
Downham, Norfolk, and has appended confirma- 
tory statements from witnessses of high standing. 
Now, we ask, was the doctor right in thinking 
the case to have been one of cerebral inflamma- 
tion ? No, clearly not, as that nearly always 
arises from a severe injury to the brain, and is 
usually fatal in a short time. The head trouble 
in this case was congestion of the brain, resulting 
from acute indigestion and dyspepsia Mr. Man- 
ning’s true and only disease. When Mother 
Seigel’s Curative Syrup cured that the brain and 
other disordered organs recovered health and 
tone. 

The marriage of Mr. H. Lascari, Bnrris- 
ter-at-Law of the Middle Temple, to Miss 
Helen Webber of Bournemouth, took place 
yesterday afternoon March 2nd at H. B. 
M’s Agency and Christ Church Cathedral. 
The civil formalities were fixed fot a 
quarter past two, and punctually at that 
time tho Bride-groom and his “best man” 
awaited tho arrival of the Bride from the 
residence of Mr. de Sausmarez, H. B. M’s 
Judge and Vice Consul at Zanzibar, where 
the Bride had been staying since her ar- 
rival in Zanzibar. 
Mrs de Sausmarez was in attendance on 
the bride and there were also present at the 
proceedings Mr. V Kestell-Corm'sh H.B.M’s 
Vice Consul of Zanzibar, Mrs. V. Kestell 
Cornish, and Mr. and Mrs. E. A. Giles. 
Mr. A. H. Hardinge H.B.M’s Agent and 
Consul-General performed the civic rites in 
his wonted impressive and accurate manner, 
at the conclusion of which the happy pair 
were toasted and congratulated on their 
union. 

LOCAL NEWS. 
His Highness the Sultan of Zanzibar 
fonns the subject of the principal article in 
the number of “L’Epcpgrtatcur Gazette 
Tfnitersetlp” for Feb. 4th. An excellent 
portrait appears on the first page with a 
fac-simile autograph letter; a short 
biography is given and an account of tho 
Island of Zanzibar with statistics of its trade. 
Orders for copies of the publication arc 
received at the Zanzibar Gazette Office. 

Mr. A. H. Hardings H. B. M’s Agent and 
Consul General left for Chwaka on Tuesday 
afternoon accompanied by 3Ir. Fox who 
has arrived in Zanzibar on a visit in behalf ; 
of the Anti-Slavery Society and (.hilanthro- ! 
pic schemes connected with the industrial \ 
question here. 

The Anti-Slavery Reporter in its mast re 
cent appearance is almost given up to the 

Carriages then conveyed the party to 
Christ Church Cathedral where with com- 
mendable punctuality the successive carri- 
ages arrived in turn and immediately on- 
the Bride’s entrance the Bridegroom and 
his “best-man” Dr. A. H. Spurrier moved 
to the choir steps. To soothing strains from 
the Organ the Bride, according to tradition, 
i leaning on the arm of Mr. de Sausmarez, who 
gave her away, advanced to the Choir En- 
trance and the Revd Ernest A.Gee thePriest- 
in-Charge of tho Cathedral attired in clotk-of- 
gold cope, with attendant Ministers,emerged 
from the Sanetury entrance and began tho 
Ceremony. Everything went without a 
hitch, and the singing by the congregation of 
“Thevoicc which breathed over Eden ' announc- 
ed the completion of tho Church’s rites. An 
adjournment was then made to the Vestry 
for the necessary signing of the Register 
and the paying of the dues on the oecasion. 

0 

Mendehlsson’x Wedding March within tin' 
building, and bolls ringing from the Campa- 
nile without, then filled the nir with sound, 
and the fiuite large party which had assem- 
bled returned to the residence of Mr. do 
Sausmarez where on prettily decorated tables 
tempting refreshments were displayed and 
where on the serving round of the indis- 
pensable beverage on such occasions . the 
Bride and Bridegrooms’ healths were pro- 
posed by Mr. de Sausmarez and warmly 
■drunk. 
The '‘best man” then proposed the health 
of Mrs. de Sausmarez, expressing by the 
wish of the Bridegroom his appreciation of 
the kind sendees she bad rendered on the 
occasion, the toast being most cordially 
drunk. 
Quite a large gathering had assembled, 
although it had originally been 'ntended that 
the wedding should have been of a semi- 
private nature. The presents were very 
numerous and of considerable value, but 
from the nature of many they were obliged 
to remain where first placed in Mr. Lascari’s 
house. Invitations are being issued for an 
At Home on Monday afternoon next at 3 p.m, 
when the Ramadan fast will be over and 
hospitality bo able to be freely dispensed 
to the Indian and other Mahomedan 
communities and the presents may then be 
seen to advantage. 
In the absence of our lady correspondent 
we cannot supply the description of the 
ladies’ dresses worn on the occasion, which to 
say the least, were characterised by grace and 
elegance. 
The happy pair left at 4 p. m. for Mr. 
Kiccl's Shamba on the sea front kindly placed 
at their disposal for a few daj's by its owner. 
His Lordship Dr. Mooro Richardson bad 
intended to perform the marriage ceremony 
but owing to a delay in his coming in from 
the Shamba he 'was regretfully unable to 
do so. He however tvas able to" attend the 
subsequent gathering. 

THE GAZETTE. 

that we are needed hero and our work is not 
yet done but we are very anxious about the 
prosperity of the city. It seems to have gone, 
and it will take many months to repair the 
losses already received. Those who leave 
the city find it difficult to live on account of 
famine prices prevalent in the Mofussil, and 
so altogether this country seems to be under 
a cloud.” 

Commander Stoddart left by the s.s. “Goa” 
on Friday last for home havisg received 
promotion from the command ot H. M. S. 
“Thrush.” 
Several friends entertained him at 
dinner at the English Club on Wednesday 
night, when his health was most cordially 
proposed by Mr. de Sausmarez. His 
leave-taking on board was very largely 
attended. 
Zanzibar loses a gallant Naval representa- 
tive of the old social school, and our local 
golfers lose one of the most constant vota- 
ries of the game. 

Very urgent representations have been 
made to us in the matter of the Siku-kuu 
money which of late in the past year or two 
has grown to extravagant proportions. 
Wo are aware of the custom by which one 
hires one’s own boys on a tacit understand- 
ing that they are to receive not merely the 
monthly wage but also the Siku-kuu money, 
but we fail to see where the obligation 
comes in to fee the boys of others’ households, 
for should one do this there seems no limit 
to the amount of hard cash a boy by persist- 
ence may obtain, and no limit to the 
demands made upon individuals, in these 
scandalously unreasonable demands made 
upon their purses, in a place where the 
necessities of life are only obtainable, from 
want of intelligent competition, at ruinous 
rates. Freely we have hitherto given, but 
one can seo very little wo have in return 
received from this reckless distribution of 
baksheesh. 

Date 
March 

Mornnij 

March 3, 1897 
HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 
Afternoon 
h. 
m. 
3 
59 
4 
38 
5 
9 
39 
9 
38 
7 
A. Le. P. AGNEW, R. N. R. 

m. 
37 
19 
64 
24 
54 
24 
53 

h. 
3 
4 
4 
5 
6 
6 
6 

  Port Officer 
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 

WEEK ending 1st March 1«!)7 

Temperatures. 
Barometer max min rain. 
S.a.m. 8.a.m.24hr8. 24hrs. inches. 
23 30.100 83.2 85.6 80.G 0.00 
24 30.137 83.5 88.5 81.7 0.00 
25 30.098 83.7 87.9 81.1 0.03 
26 30.113 81.6 85.4 79.5 0.02 
27 30.107 80.5 85.3 77.0 0.30 
28 30.077 80.5 85.0 77.9 0.02 
30.063 82.2 87.1 79.8 0.0O 

Tuesday Jan. 
Wednesday „ 
Thnraday „ 
Friday ,, 
Saturday „ 
Sunday „ 
Monday March 1 
W eekly ) 
means. ) 30.101 82.2 86.4 79.0 
Total for i 
the week j 0.37 
Total Rainfall to 28th Feb. 1897. 4.29 Inches. 
F.CHARLESWORTH. 

EXCHANGE. 
Chartered Bank. 

Bank demand drafts on London. 

Per 

Wednesday, Feb. 24 
Thursday, „ 25 
Friday, „ 26 
Saturday, „ 27 
Monday, .March 1 
Tuesday. „ 2 

Rs 
15 
15 
15 

a. 
12. 
12. 
12. 
0. 
13.: 0. 
1.5 
15 
13. : 0. 
15 j 13. o. 

i 

CHRIST CHURCH CATHEDRAL1 

ENGLISH SERVICES DURING 

LENT 1897. 

H. N.  TALATI. 

Auctioneer. 

Captain Barratt of the Indian Contingent 
.arrived from his short leave by the M.M. boat 
and proceeded to Mombasa by the s.s. “ Jia- 
rawa” on Tuesday afternoon. 
Mrs. 15.A. Giles arrived by the same boat, 
with Miss Webber and Mr. Fox. 

H.M.S. “Gibraltar” is ordered to return to 
■the Mediterranean and will leave on Satur- 
day culling ut Kilindini on the way. 
H.M.S. “Fox” will return here from the 
South, and H.M.S. “Monarch, a 3rd Class 
battleship will shortly arrive from the North. 

Fortunately nothing has come of the large 
number of Indians lately landing here from 
the plague stricken districts of Bombay. 
In a letter just received wo lenrn from a 
very active missionary worker:— 
“ I ho plague is affecting all districts and all 
houses and all storeys. Though the report- 
ed number of deaths generally keeps below 
100 daily you may safely double ,he number. 
Tho Europeans are beginning to show some 
alarm, and wives and families are removing. 
But tho neighbouring resorts are catching 
the infection and are very much crowded. 
We arc not anxious lor ourselves, believin"- 

 :e:  ^ ‘We beg to notify that Mr. William 
Colonel Castro arrived by the German' Pilling ceases to be a partner in this firm 
Mail to take up tho position of Consul Gc-‘ ri'ora and after 1st March 1897. The style 
neral for Portugal in Zanzibar. of the firm remains unchanged. 

1 CHARLESWORTH PILLING & Co. 

We much regret to have to announce the i ■ 

death of Mrs. Dumonteil-Lagreze which sad i 
event occurred at Marseilles where she had i 
by medical advice returned from Zanzibar, j urt; dated 
Her son Mr. E, A. Dumonteil-Lagreze j will 
immediately left by the home-going French ' 
mail, accompanied by one of his sisters, the 
in a month or so’s time. 

NOTICE. 

By the order o! the French Consular Co- 
20th February the undersigned 
j will sell by public Auction on Monday the 
22nd March 4 Big iron lighters, 1 Steam 

p T „ jthe property oi the lute M. Henry Greffulhe 

1 ' i deceased. 

Sun i>.\ 

8.15. Hoi.y Eucharist. 
9.30. Mattins. 
4.45. Evensong, with Sermon. 

Daily, (i Mat-tins. 
M KDXKKIUY, 6.45. Holy Euch.viiist. 
Fridays. 6 45. Holy Eucharist. 

12. Litany. 

12. Litany. 
6.-L") Evensong, with address. 

dOlsR ’sT'pt Illicit rjl0 

TiU-il-Tlt 
MrSI t! tUNH'.'ril Rlil ^t2[. I Ncfl'H 
Sitri2!. 2 MHiitril :HU. q MtC-fl ctiS'l. 
, Wt. H'Sl sRJ. aw Hl'Al 'ILlC itlw j: 7? 
Rlc "•‘illUet *3 rl jflsu- 

qSRl. 

1 »l. rtCHldl. 

For Zanzibar and East Africa. 

Vol. VI. No 2671 

Ucmcv’s CdeiTvams 

Zanzibar, 3rd March, 1897. 

The insurgents have captured the fort 
and village of Caudano with 800Q lurks 
including 300 regular troops. 
The Greek Consul at Canea lias gone to 
Seliuo to intercede for the blockaded Turks 
there and for prisoners at Cundanol..■ 
The Powers have presented the collective 
note to Turkey and an identical one to 
Greece declaring Crete to bo autonomous 
hut under the Suzerainty,of the Sultan and 
demanding the Greek forces to evacuate 
within six days. 
The Turkish gendaranes at Cnnea have 
mutinied and have shot their Colonel. 
The Naval Programme for this year 
allows for building fourteen new ships, of 
which four will be battleships and to 
increase the number of men by six thousand. 

4th March 1897. 

The Note from the Powers appeals to the 
wisdom of Greece not to resist the decision 
of the Powers who will not hesitate to use 
coercive measures to enforce tho evacuation. 
It is generally expected however that 
Greece will refuse to comply. 
Selino and Candanc have been placed 
under foreign protection. 
Negociations are still proceeding between 
tlie Powers and the Porte regarding the 
nomination of the new governor of Crete. 
The Porto insists on his 1 icing an Ottoman 
subject. 
Diplomatic relations between Great Britain 
and Venezuela which were suspended in 
1887 have been resumed. 

5th March, 1897. 

The Greek press is unanimous in urging 
the Greek Government to rejecl I lie note 
from the Powers. The Minister for War 
lias resigned owing to the rejection of his 
advice to send reinforces to Crete. 
The Metropolitan of Athens has telegra- 
phed to tlie Archbbishop of Canterbury 
beseeching him to raise his voice in the 
name of Christ on behalf of the Cretans. 
Signor Barbato an Italian deputy and a 
member of Italian volunteers for t rate have 
arrived in Athens. 

Mr. McKinley in his inaugural speech 
stated that he advocated a sound monev 

6th March, 1897. 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 10, 1897. 
| policy us well as international bimetalism. 
j Also a protective Customs Tariff with 
! reciprocity similar to that of 1890 and that 
he strongly approved of an arbitration Treaty 
with Great Britain. An extra session is to 
(he summoned for 15th inst. to consider tho 
Tariff. Mr. McKinley did not allude to 
j Cuba. 
■ ■ The rejection of the demands of the 
| Powers is regarded as certain. . The crowd i 
j at Athens penetrated into the court yard 
(of the Palace shouting for war. 
i. The situation on the Thessalian frontier 
j Is critical and the Tuikish reinforcements 
! continue proceeding thither. 
I It is reported that the Porte has decided 
j to give an evasive reply to the note from 
| the Powers. 
The foreign Bourses are all very flat and 
i a gloomy view of the situation is taken. Tt 
; is doubted if the concert of the Powers can 
I stand the strain entailed by actual coercive 
| measures. 
j The evidence of Mr. Rhodes was con- 
cluded with an examination by Mr. Chamber- 
lain who elicited from him the policy of the 
Transvaal for several years past which 
tendered to jeopardize the peace of Africa. 
8th March, 1897. 

The French Russian and British Consuls 
. are now living on board tho men-of-war at! 
Selino from whence the British Consul will | 
proceed to Candano escorted by a mixed j 
force of 500 men to uegocinte for the release ! 
of the 9000 ;besieged Mussulmans. 
The Secretary of State for the German 
Navy has startled the Reichstag by asking i 
for an extra vote of nine millions sterling! 
to provide for building new ships, during ; 
the next three years. He urged that German 
influence would go to the devil unless the ! 
fleet was able to exercise pressure on dist- j 
; ant seas. j 
The French aud Russian Press are jealous 
of the British Mission to Abyssinia. 
| The Queen will have an interview with 
! President Fame at the station outside Paris 
ion her way to tho Riviera. 
The Prince of Wales w ho is proceeding 
: to Hveres entertained Mens Jianotaux at 
! luncheon ut the British Embassy in Paris 
!on Saturday. 
The French Chamber has rejected the 
radical motion directed against petroleum 
and grain rings worked by financial com- 
panies to which deputies belong and has 
passed a vote of confidence in the Govern- 
ment by a majority of 110. I 

[PRICE TWO ANNAS. 

The order for the dispatch of the Suffolk 
regiment to the Cape has been suddenly 
cancelled. 
It is understood that Greece will reply 
to the uoto from the Powers to-day refusing 
to recall her fleet and troops on the ground 
that such an act. would "be the signal for 
pillage and murder. 
The Porte lias replied to the first note 
ami accepts the proposals in principle but 
desires to discuss the^ details of the autono- 
my of Greece. 

9th March, 1897. 

The Admirals have prepared a plan to- 
coerce Greece including the blockade of the 
Piraeus and the Cretan Coast and the seiz- 
ure of the Greek meu-of-war for disobeying 
the orders of the combined fleets. 
It was reported last night that the Greek 
reply to the note opens the door to a com- 
promise. 
The Hon. G. Curzon stated in the House 
that, the position of British missions and 
British subjects generally in Madagascar 
was receiving the earnest attention of the 
Government who were about to address 
representations to France on the subject. 

THE RINDERPEST 

IN AFRICA. 

GROWING ALARM. 

PR 0 CL A MA TIONS. 
AUSTRALIA G 01 "E RN ME N T. 
ORDER IN COUNCIL. 

At Government, House,—Brisbane,, 
this twenty-seventh dav of October- 
1890. 

His Excellency the Governor itr 

Present : 

Council. 

Whereas by “The Diseases in Stock 
Act ofl-96” it is amongst other things 
enacted that the Governor in Council 
may, from time to time, by Order in 
Council, —prohibit or put restrictions- 
on the importation or introduction of 
any stock or anv carcass from such 

