ception of two they all succumbed to their extent responsible for the low scoring. 
ill fate. 
We believe that the Arab who bought 
the bottle containing poison together with a 
lot of other bottles and articles, from an 
auction sale, was quite innocent, really be- 
lieving the bottle to contain flour. The 
poor fellow has through fright (though 
needless', hidden himself, but the police are 
after him. 

The s.s. “ITerza/j” which loft for Europe 
on the ‘25th February carried a full list 
of passengers among whom were:— Mrs. 
W. J. W. Nicol, Mr. Mauser, Air. Fuchs, 
Bev. and Mrs. Oswalds, Dr. TJhI, Mr. Grain 
Judge Meyer, M. Weber, Mr. Weissmann, 
Mr. Thiel and Mr. Pfenffer. 
During the ship’s stay in harbour, Zan- 
zibar was considerably enlivened by the 
humorous passengers who paraded the 
streets, sightseeing and making extensive 
purchases of curios, jewellry ect. The 
Multani and Singalese shops almost solely 
depend upon the mail steamers for their 
trade, and on occasions such ns the arrival 
of tho “Herzog" when there are many 
passsengers, each shop on an average docs 
business to the extent of Rs. 1,000 or more. 
Twenty one new subscribers and about 
half a dozen advertisements 1 since the be- 
ginning of this year is not bad ; we hope to 
receive many more as the year advances. 
Special attention is being paid to make the 
advertisements as corract and attractive os 
possible, and we are glad to state that one 
firm was so' pleased with his page of ad- 
vertisement, that he ordered 50 copies of 
the “Gazette *’ to send to his friends in 
Europe. 

Mr. A. C. Gomes the photographer, loft 
for Goa by the “ Safari ” on Friday, for a 
few months’ change. 

Mr. Powell arrived by tho French mail 
to assist in the firm Of Messrs. Boustead 
Ridley & Co. 

A most successful “At Home” was 
given at the Golf Pavilion yesterday by the 
Captain and Officers of H. M. S. “Bdrra- 
contn,” who provided two prizes for com- 
petition, one, for “putting”, for the ladies 
and the other, for “approaching,” for mem- 
bers of tho Zanzibar Golf Club. There was 
a largo gathering of all the European' com- 
munities and tho greatest interest was 
taken in tho proceedings. The arraugemerits 
f >r the competitions were in the hands 
of the Green Committee of the Holf Club and 
were admirably carried out. 
The men’s competition came first and 
consisted erf approaching from different dis- 
tances and holing out twice on the fourth 
green, the bunker in front of which had 
bfcen made much more difficult by a high 
cricket net, over which each player’s ball 
bird to pass. Mr. Alexander was the orrly 
player who steered clear of difficulties and 
won with two 4’s, Mr. Nosworthy, with art 
allowance of one stroke, being second, audj 
Mr. Ricol third; the form generally was 
considerably below the standard, but the ' 
extreme keenness of the green'was to some 1 

THE GAZETTE. 

March J., 1899. 

The ladies’ competition, which coasisted 
of four putts from different distances, was 
most keenly contested, and the form dis- 
played, considering the few opportunities 
that our wives and daughters have of 
practising, was really excellent. Mrs. Corn 
ish with a total score of 9, made up Of three 
2’s and a 3, eventually won the prize, but 
was only one stroke better than Madame 
Farre; Madame Pestalozza, who had never 
touched a golf-club before, was third with 
a score of 11, one of her putts in which she 
holed out from the “tee” fairly bringing 
down the house. 
The proceedings concluded with the pre- 
sentation ol prizes and a cordial vote of 
thanks to our hosts, whose kindness had 
enabled us to spend a most enjoyable and 
profitable afternoon. 

FULL LIST 0F°'H0N0URS FOR 

UGANDA. 

The Queen has been graciously pleased to give 
directions for the following appointments to the 
Most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and 
Saint George, in recognition of their services in 
the Uganda Protectorate:— 
To be Ordinary Members of the Third Class, 
or Companions of the said Most Distinguished 
Order: 

Lient.. Charles Wilson Fowler (late R.N.). 
Charles St Aubyn Wake, Esq., Garrison Ad- 
jutant and Quartermaster at Mombasa. 
Tim Queen has been graciously pleased to.give 
orders for the following appnintments to the 
Distinguished Service Order, and promotions in 
the Army, in recognition of the services of the 
undermentioned officers during the recent opera- 
tions in Uganda:— 
The promotions to bear date January 25,1899. 
To be Companions of the Distinguished Ser- 
Major C. G. H. Sitwell, the Royal Dublin 
Capt. G. S. MeLoughlin, M.B., Royal Army 
Capt. J.D. Ferguson. Royal .Army Medical 
Capt. E. G. Harrison, the Duke of Wellington’s 
Capt. E.J. Tickoll, 14th Hussars. 
Lieut. N. Malcolm, Princess Louise’s (Argyll 
Lieut. P. B. Osborn, the Oxfordshire Light 
Lient. W. R. Dugmore, the Prince of Wales's 

vice Order .— 
Fusiliers. 
Medical Corps. 
Corps. 
(West Riding Reg.). 

R.E. 
Cornwall's Light Infantry. 

and Sutherland Highlanders). 
Infantry. 
(North Staffordshire Reg.). 
BnEVKT. 
To he Lieut. Colonels:'— 
Capt. and Brevet Mai. J. K. L. Macdonald, 
Maj. C.G. Martyr, D. S.0., the Duke of 
To. he Majors:— 
Capt. E.G. Harrison, tho Duke of Wellington's 
(West Riding Reg.). 
Capt. E.At. Woodward, the Leicestershire Reg. 
Capt. (temporary .Major) C.H.U. Price, I.S.C. 
Capt W. C. Barratt, I). S.O., f.S.C. 
Capt. H.H. Austin, R. E. 
The .Queen has-been further pleased to approve j 
the grant of the Aiedal for Distinguished Conduct; 
in the Field to Second Corporal W. M. Brodie, i 
R.L. 

,M EMOKANDUM: 

Additional Notice. 

Lent. T. E.,Scott, D.S.O., I.S.C., is no'od for! 
consideration for thu brevet rank of Major,pr> | 
motion to the rank of Captain. 

THE LOST BALL 

III. 

The Bull Frog’s Lament. 

I 

n. 

at ease 

One day on the Mnazi Moja, I was tremblin'? and ill 
And I had no heart for driying, but idled around the tees, 
I hardly knew I was driving, or if I was dreaming when 
I struck one ball with a boom crack, like the strength 

of fnll three men. 

It rose in the air like an eagle, o’er bunker arid-Cop it flew. 
And straight and steady I watched it, till it lay ou the 
And my heart was tilled with gladness, for I felt 1 now 
And I pictured myself as the winner of a championship 
Sol walked to the green in triumph, I was sure, with, 
One stroke of the putter would hole it—but, alas ! ho 

green 1 knew; 
could play, 
cup some day; 
a little care, 
ball was there. 

And I sought, but I sought it vainly, that one lost 
Till the Zanzibar day was waning, and the moon be^an 
And I gave my caddie baksheesh, q.nd he searched from 
Butthe Ball I drove so grandly has never since then 

ball of mine, 
to shine; ° 
green to green, 
been seen. 

I have oft topped a ball or missed it, T Imre scooped 
the sods at my feet, 1 
But that one gi oat stroke with the driver I shall never 
again repeat. 
It may be that another Bull frog will show wliere mv 
ball has lain - J 
But it may bo that only in Scotland 1 shall drive like 
that again. 

IV. 

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 
Week Ending, 27th Februabv 1899 
Temperature. 

Barometer, d.b. w.b. max. min nun 
-.m. 8a.m .8a.m. 24hrs. 24hrs In* 
Tuesday Feb.,, 21 30.040 82.9 
040 82.0 76.4 88.5 80 7 0 5) 
, 22 30.0c0 82.3 76.1 .*88.7 80.1 00ft 
Wednesday ~ " 
Thursday 
23 30.020 83.7 76.3 89.1 79.4 0.00 
Friday *24 30.00(5 83.3 
76.4 8‘.).0 80.5 n GO 
Saturday 
25 39.020 83.6 7G.0 8!>.0 81 0 0 3) 
Sunday 
2G 30.010 82.9 77.0 88.9 .SOO 0W 
on on nn« Of, n gg j ‘ U*W 
Monday 
27 29.998 83.9 
81.1 0.00 
Weekly means. 30.018 S3.2 7G.5 88 8 am non 
Total for I U,U ) 
the week/ 
Total Eainfa to SIsf January IS99.1.34 Jlnehef 

F. CHAHLESWOimp ' 

iSSNHl 3 

"HVIG: StK-iirlrt 

HShUrt 'Hfth 'RuiitPH'-ii iHP-jJct 

^ Mt G* 5 . 

"HRHR R^Wcl^l oy c 

Ctril Hfric-uct NCR ''fufiimw -HC-fl!; 

SfieUHRi 3U=l >3 5 y-qc-tt qpHRl stGi '4 
vqSll 'vSfHI (3HC-U qaqp.ril HtClM Qvr S: 
vlSflSi qictrih c-r>4q q4 

5HT rilRl Rli 
'-ft'IHl ^6] qm ^meti SMrtl 3 dri Ctt. 
3VH1 Sttioiyi U'zfl y'tflqr toqqcu. 
FRANCIS J. COLLINSON. 

Acting Judge, 

^ISdrlS.^, 

rila 3VHI V-’R.il"! U'-'2. 

Cl)c ©alette. 

ICR ZANZIBAR UND 1AST AFRICA, 

Vol. VIII. No. 371] 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 8, 1899. 

[PRICE TWO ANNAS. 

RANAVOLS. 

Ranavols arrived at Marseilles yester" 
day and was allowed to prolong her stay 
sightseeing before she proceeded to Algiers, 
where a villa and a liberal pension have 
been alloted to her. 

MONS. FALLIERS. 

1th March. 

Falliers as President. 

The French Senate lias elected Moils- 

%qniqx'z C^lcgrams. 

UGANDA IN PARLIAMENT. 

London Isf March, 1899. 

Sir Charles Dilkc-moved to reduce the 
vote for Uganda Central and Eupt Africa in 
view of the unsatisfactory position in 
Uganda. Sir Edward Grey asked for an 
explanation of tho waste of money and the 
bloodshed in Uganda. ' 
Mr. Brodrick said there was no cause tor 
anxiety about the present position of Ugan- 
da. as the country had largely settled down. 
The object of Major M.yrtyr’s expedition 
was to explore and plant posts on the right 
bank of the Nile and connect Uganda with 
the Soudan and ultimately join hands with 
Lord Kitchener. The motion was rejected 
by 185 votes to 66. 

THE POPE’S ILLNESS. 

SERIOUS CONDITION. 

! l'j)e Pope has had a prolonged swoon and 
has been ordered to bed for absolute repose. 

SLIGHTLY BETTER. 

‘And March. 

The Pope was somewhat better yester- 

dav morning.    

IMPROVING. 

3rd March. 

A large, cyst has been excised from the 
Pope’s thigh without administering chloro 
form. He has a slight touch of fever but 
otherwise is doing well and is improving. 

CONVALESCENT. 

6th March. 

The Pope is almost convalescent. 

GERMANY AND CHINA. 
GERMANY’S FIRM ATTITUDE. 
1st March. 

The German men of war at present at 
Manila are probably going to China con- 
sequent on the Tientsin outrage. 
Herr Buelow in a speech in the Reicn- 
&a-a said, that unless the culprits were 
severely punished or if these outrages were 
repeated China would incur grave conse- 

RUDYARD KIPLING. 

Mr. Rudyard Kipling's condition was 

unchanged at 11 p.m. on Tuesday night. 

And March. 

Later. 

Mr. Kipling continues to improve and 

consciousness has been restored. 

It is announced that Kipling has now 
passed the crisis and no further danger is 
anticipated. 

DEATH OF LORD HERO HELL. 
Lord Herchell died at Washington 

yesterday very suddenly. 

FRANCE. 

THE DREYFUS BILL. 
MORE POLICE RAIDS. 

The French Senate passed the Dreyfus 
Bill by 158 votes to 131. Further police 
raids have been made on the headquarters 
of the Legite Patrie I'rancdise and other 
Leagues in Paris. 
THE LEAGUES TO BE SUPPRESSED. 

1th March. 

The French Government intends to pro- 
secute the members of the various leagues 
recently formed with a view to their sup- 
pression, on the ground of illegality. 

ENGLAND YIELDS TO THE 

FRENCH DEMAND. 

It is announced that Great Britain re- 
cognizes the entire equality of France and 
England under the Treaty of 1862, and 
assents to the French having a coaling 
station at Muscat provided there is no 
cession of territorv. 

TRIAL OF PIQUART. 

6th March 

The criminal section of the Court of 
Cassation has decided that Piquart shall 
have his first trial before the Civil Court 
ou a charge of forgery and afterwards by 
Courtmartial oharged with divulging secret 
state documents. 
TERRIBLE MAGAZINE EXPLOSION. 

40 BODIES RECOVERED. 

The Naval Magazine at Toulon exploded 
yesterday morning and all the soldiers on 
tlnty anil many inhabitants have been 
killed. Forty dead bodies have already 
been recovered. 

THE PRINCE OF WALES 

AND 

PRESIDENT LOUBET. 

The Prince of Wales proceeding to the 
Reviera visited President Lonbet, his be- 
ing the first Royal visit. 

THE SAGASTA CABINET. 

The Sagasta Cabinet has resigned owing 
to its meeting with violent opposition to 
tho Cortes. 

And March. 

ITALY AND CHINA. 
DEMANDS OE ITALY. 

Italy has demanded the lease of Sac 
Moon Bay south of Niugpo and also the 
concession of three islands off the coast. 
It is believed that Great Britain has ap- 
proved of his demand. Mr. Brodrick re- 
plying in the House of Commons to a 
question about the Russian protest against 
the terms of the NewChwaug Railway 
| said, that the British Government regards 
the engagements made by China tbere- 
anent as binding. 

CHINA NOT FAVOURABLE 

TO THE DEMAND. 

1th March. 

i There is every likelihood of the cession 
ol San Moon to Italy being rejected as the 
Chinese believe that Great Britain insti- 
gated the demand inaugurating the policy 
of partition. 

CHINA’S REPLY. 

6t// March. 

The Tsunghyamen has replied to Italy 
that it is impossible to lease San Moou. It 
is announced in Rome that the Tsungliya- 
men s, refusal is not regarded seriously by 
Italy who still maintain the demand. 

BISHOP FOR MADAGASCAR. 

TheRey. Mr. King Vicar of St. Marv’s 
Southshields has been appointed Anglican 
Bishop for Madagascar. 

2 

THE GAZETTE. 

March 8, 1899. 

March 8, 1899. 

THE GAZETTE. 

As a rule they are fairly educated men for 
Arabs, and can generally read and write, and are 
learned in the Koran. It might surprise Euro- 
pean readers to know what a wonderfnl svstein 
of agencies they possess all over the So'udan, 
where, of course, regular posts are unknown, 
and telegraphs undreamt of. With their system 
of the Ergass or fast mounted messenger, who 
can travel enormous distances on a racing dro- 
medary, they get news through witii astonishing 
rapidity even in troubled times, as to the state 
of markets and the prices of commodities. With 
this they are eminently secretive, have a splendid- 
ly organised kind of Freemasonry, are capable 
of keeping interesting and important news 
locked up among themselves, and are difficult 
people to pump. They are very hard-headed 
keen men and might he called the Scotsmen of 
Africa.. Though they are not ungenerous or 
unbending when their confidence is gained, a 
foreigner, to attain this object, needs a perfect 
mastery of their tongue, and the guile of a Jew. 
But these men know how to deal with .lews, 
and accept with philosophic resignation a bargain 
m which.the Jew has had the best of them, a 
thing which it is quite natural to suppose is by 
no means au infrequent occurrence. 

THE ORDINARY ARAB. 

Besides the Ghadamsi, the-ordinary Arab; as 
I call him, although of many colours, varying 
from pure black to white, is a man of much in- 
ferior genius. Every Arab thinks himself a 
born trader, at least, until he becomes rich, when 
he turns into a small sultan. However, in the 
beginning he may have been a porter, plough- 
man, or camel driver, and if an inflation of prices 
only occurs, and tales of the fortunes netted by 
the arriving enravan men are circulated, he rises 
to the occasion, and feels quite competent to un- 
dertake the financial management and the or- 
ganisation of a caravan, and can, and does lind 
e\en Jews to entrust to him their own, pi* more 
olton, indeed, somebody else’s savings. He 
starts ns n rule badly handicapped, but it is a 
small concern to him, as he stands to lose next 
to nothing. He is generally a landed proprietor 
of some kind, and possibly possess.s a cow, a 
well, and a garden, but the charms of his wif«,I 
who at thirty, has become an old hag, please him 
little, and his children, those who have managed 
to survive, have got themselves off his hands 
at an early age. 
As their combined work did not open to him 
the road to wealth, and to the paradise ho had 
been dreaming about, while basking in the sun 
watching them work, he decides to make a move, 
and scrambles together oil his realisable effects, 
in order to make a show of something towards a 
start, and then goes on the hunt for capitalists 
as partners m a caravan venture. His nhysica 
condition is perhaps not always bad. if lie is a 
country Arab, he would probably perspire rather 
fievly after a brisk walk of a hundred yards or so. 
-Lius in no may diminishes his faith in himself 
and the tlioughfof a 2,000 mile stamp to the 
centre of Africa in no way makes him feel anv 
sensation of funk. He will get his trainine a= 
lie goes on. He believes in this system. Prelimi- 
nary training is loss of time and quite unneces- 
sary discomfort. He will have a bad enough time 
of it m the beginning of the march, without 
adding to it beforehand. The Arab is nothing if 
not selfconfident in anything relating to physi- 
cal exercise, for he has a sneaking belief that lie 
is the only man in the world with muscles and 
the power of using them, an opportunity he is 
really willing to take ns seldom as possible. 

THE JEW. 

The Eastern Jew is of a race apart from his 
European brethren, having as a rule to exercise 
Jus talientson smaller objects, arid in‘a smaller 

,field than his more fortunate Western brolher 
except perhaps his co-relgionist of the poorest 
quarters of the East End of London. Owing to his 
Jack of general education lie could not compete 
with a Board School boy of twelve, but there is 
one department iii which ho would rarely fail 
to Like a first prize against Westerns of double 
Ins age, and that, is in finaneo, as applied praeti- 
eally to his own person, and profit. 
The Jew is a difficult and curious study 
Oomplicalions in property matters are bad enough 
m all conscience in England, but they appear 
elemcutary besides the wonderful system of the 
Jews, where a single house of teii rooms may 
have ten landlords, and laws of inheritance are 
too mysterious to enter upon here. The ordin- 
ary man who aspires to work eight hours a day to 
obtain his living cannot hope to compete with 
such a Jew in business methods. This man 
works with his head, if not with his body, at least 
sixteen hours a day. In his moments of so-called 
enjoyment, his chief delight is calculating and in 
his loves and lovers’ meetings, the only absorbing 
question is lucre. Shop, Shop, and still Shop is 
the eternal cry, no other subjects interest him 
at all strongly, except, perhaps, tile safetv of his 
own skin, which is very tender, and which lie 
looks after very carefully. No Tntollectual a- 
musement incomprehensible to him; he cannot 
understand any man fatiguing his brains unless 
there is money at the end of it. The Eastern 
Jew has, however, some good points, which it 
would he unjust not to cite. He has strong 
affection for his children, is faithful to his wife 
and, strange to say, is a firm believer in family 
ortgm as any aristocrat. His sympathy foi- 
shnrp tricks is certainly too large for our notions, 
and in this respect what we might call moral 
obliquity is to him rather a sign of genius. He 
lias generally very keen judgment, and is quick 
to seize an advantage and hold on to it, and he 
carries exaggeration of language to a fine art. 
These preliminary sketches of the people inter- 
ested in the caravan trade will serve perhaps to 
give a better understanding of the manner iu 
which a caravan is ogarnised—not a true Arab 
caravan such as the Ghadamsi organise, but one 
participated in by many people such as the native 
Jews and Europeans, and which is to be en- 
trusted to the cere of an outside Arab. 
THE REAL STRUGGLE. 

When the preliminary matters are agreed upon 
such as the amount of capital, shares, shares of the 
pro its, interest-bearing guarantees or simple 
partnerships, the real struggle begins, and it is a 
g! antic struggle between the Arab and each 
individual co-partner, and the partners among 
themselves. The classes of goods being approx- 
matcly arranged, the object of each partner is 
tbfbi ^ f^ t0 fate llls Parlie"'l»r goods at 
tta highest valuation possible, and to get his 
fellow-partner s stuff taken at the lowest. It’s 
an interesting business, and requires the patience, 
tact, and diplomacy of an ambassador. The 
'eason fur this is, that on the return of the 
Arab, each partner takes ids share of the stuff 
biought back according to the prearranged va- 
endil 6 “ur0va?a'se sent. Intrigues are 
endless The indispensable Jew broker is here 
ilm aTI? “Seututy, alternately working for 
the Atab or the partner, as occasion serves, oi- 
S'V SW’clay feast is made more plenteous. 
Honeier this stage is at last got through—to 
the satisfaction of nobody apparently, yet all 
seem content. - ’ •' 

PREPARING FOR THE JOURNEY. 
The process of packing begins, and now the 
Ho * le!j ,1Ve “tere9tlhe business. 
He will turn up early m the morning, with two 
or three domestics, for he has How become an 
important individual, and etiquette requires a 

THE MACDONALD EXPEDITION. 
Colonel MacDonald’s expedition has ar- 
rived at Mombasa from the interior, all well. 
It is believed the object of the mission is 
abandoned. 

EXECUTION OF MURDERERS. 

The murderers of the Dravids mentioned 
on I7th February have been sentenced to 
death. 

HOW AFRICA1YS 

TRADE. 

THE STORY OF A CARAVAN. 

[By Edger J. Warble.] 

The idea. of the great route starting from 
Alexandria in the North and finishing at the 
Cape, which is the grandiose conception of Mr. 
^Rhodes, promises to have a good chance of being 
successfully realised within the lifetime of most 
of us. ft has already loft the sphere of mere 
speculation, and from a Utopian dream it has 
already developed into a practical scheme which 
mil certainly be earned out, and perhaps sooner 
than is now thought. It may be met by the al- 
most equally great route from West to East, 
from the Niger Company’s territories, through 
the heart of the most populous part of Central 
Africa. The advance of the Niger Company 
towards the East through Sokoto and Bornou, 
is Jan accomplished fact, and it may with 
certainty be now predicted that the trade of the 
ancient North Caravan roads from Tripoli 0f 
Barbary and Bengasi, at one time almost the 
only way of penetrating to these countries, will 
be quite extinguished, and facilities are opened 
up to tlie West coast by the Niger, and to the 
Eaat through Wadai and Darfur to Kartoum. 
It should be interesting to describe the man- 
ner in which the trade now menaced with ex- 
tinction has been and is still carried on, and also 
of the men engaged in it. 
Lord Byron and other poets have often extoll- 
ed the nobility of the Arab character, his pride 
and independence, his loyalty to his friends, and 
his implacable hatred of his enemies. He un- 
doubtedly does possess some of those qualities, 
hut a long experience of practical business deal- 
ing with this supposed noble creature will make 
the poetic glamour witli which he has been so 
long enshrouded look rather misty. Judge by 
the nineteenth century standard of civilisation, 
his sordidness and rapacity wipe out a great deal 
of that glamour, and present him in the guise of 
a Semite to which race lie really belongs, but 
without.possessing the intelligence of the Jew. 
An Arab of any class, oven the wealthiest, has 
generally the soul of money-grubber, while affect- 
ing a scorn ho does not feel for lucre. 
THE GHADAMSI TRIBE. 

, '"hero is one tribe, however, with a real capa- 
city for business, the Ghnddmsi, whose head- 
quarters^ arc in the town of Glmdames, about 
ton days' camel journey from Tripoli, and close 
to the south-east frontier of Tunis, and on the 
main route front Tripoli to Ghat and the West- 
ern Soudan. They have almost a monopoly of 
the Northern caravan business, and are far the 
most intelligent and wealthy of North African 
tribes. They have their trade ramifications in 
Ml the towns of the Soudan while many reside 
in Tripoli, or have their agents there;"but al- 
most invariably at the end of his trading career, 
« Ghadamsi roturns 16 his native town to end 
his days. Tlwvo are .many reasons {or their re- 
markable pre-eminence in the enravan-trade. 

few niggers about. He will even pull off his 
houmous or blanket, as if he meant to do some- 
thing. His secretary is with him, and squats 
down in a corner, and pulling out of a pocket 
a reed pen and ft doftei’j or book, which he 
spreads on his knees—writing-desks are use- 
less encumbrances to the Arab—proceeds now 
to take down the contents of each small bale 
as it is being made up in weights of about a 
hundred-weight and 9t quarter each. The toad 
Gonsists of cotton piece goods, T cloths, shirt- 
ings, prints, some woollens, mixed with tea. 
coffee, sugar, small round mirrors in plenty 
(the native beauties are as fond of admiring 
themaelves in a glass as their more civilised 
sisters), glass beads, and a kind of shield in 
glass about two inches long, with a hole in the 
top. This process of packing goes on for weeks, 
perhaps months. Any attempt to hurry the 
Arab would only be fatal to his peace of mind, 
and cause further delay, for he is thoroughly 
enjoying himself now, as a man of consequence, 
and objects to shorten his pleasure by taking it 
at a gulp. During this time he is attending the 
market once or twice a week on the look-out for 
camels, or if he cannot get all he wants lie makes 
arrangements with natives of the interior, who 
have brought stuff to Tripoli, and who would 
probably be returning to their own country 
empty, and are only too glad to freight camels 
for a part of the journey. This system is con- 
venient to both parties, and is often cheaper 
than buying all the camels at the moment of de- 
parture, for they have generally to be exchanged 
at the end of the first stage in Fezzan, those 
employed in the colder northern country not be- 
ing so suitable for the hotter climate further 
south.    
A LITTLE DODGE. 

It would be a delusion to imagine, however, 
that all is ended with the packing, and that 
there is nothing now but to make a start. Alas, 
the Arab finds he has no ready cash for the j'l’ur- 
ney, not a sufficient number of the indispensable 
Maria-Theresa dollars, the current money of 
Central Africa, which ds still coined in Tricst 
for use there. This, of course, means another 
“call” on the partners in the caravan, for very 
little actual money is required on the way, a few 
dollars covering all the necessary money ©x- 
penditnre, cloth and trinkets forming the 
basis of payment on the march. But the chief 
insists on having something in hand, to avoid 
opening too many bales on the way. It is a 
little dodge—a little Arab dodge to get some- 
thing more than was at first bargained for, and 
that is all. And then the Seneds, or contracts, 
have to be written out, and stamped and settled 
before the Cadi. This is done with the assistance 
of two native lawyers, or adools, as they are 
called. They come and sit down very solemnly, 
with grave salaams, very polite, very learned, 
and scribble through the necessary document 
with great celerity and ease, long practice enab- 
ling them to fix the conditions with great facility, 
and they are also expert in arranging the many 
difficulties which inevitably arise in making tha 
final arrangement suitable to both parties, always 
on the basis of a compromise. Compromiso in 
all business matters is the Arab fetish, fixity of 
conditions being an unknown quantity with them, 
until they have gained, or rather in most cases, 
think they have gained, some advantage which 
th«y had not calculated upon. However, in 
some way, when patience has been stretched to 
a point which would send the average English- 
man, untrained to this sorb of thing, to a lunatic 
asylum, all is ready, and a start is promised. 

THE START AT LAST. 

Then th© weather is carefully studied, the re 

settled up, and one fine morning a muster is 
made of a part of the caravan, and they file out 
into the open ground in a long, straggling line, 
the last camels bearing the tents, and a myste- 
rious array of tin cans and water jugs hanging 
to the saddles. After some embraces, blessings, 
and parting advices to relatives, to the immense 
relief of everybody, the last is seen of the long 
string of loaded camels, and the idea which strikes 
one most, while watching this stream, look- 
ing like a line of meandering ants, is how and 
when they are going to arrive at the end of a 
journey of some two thousand miles. It looks 
like an everlasting adieu to the small fortune 
invested, and you feel as if it would be quite safe 
to go home and make your will, leaving tha re- 
sult to your future grand-children. However, 
they do reach their destination, and tli«y do come 
back, as 1 shall relate next week. 

(Sunday ChronicU.') 

THE ZOOLOGICAL EXPLORATION OF 

THE GREAT AFRICAN LAKES. 

OWING to the unique and extremely interest- 
ing nature of the fauna in Lake Tanganyika, 
the study of which was recently the object of 
an expedition supported by the Royal Society, 
and led by Mr. J. E. S. Moore, a Committee has 
been formed, consisting of Sir John Kirk, G. 
C. M. G„ K. C. B., F. It. S. (late British Resi- 
dent at Zanzibar), Dr. P. L. Sclater F. R. S. 
(secretary to the Zoological Society), Mr. 
Thiselton-Dyer, C. M. G., F. R. S. (director of 
Kew Gardens), Prof. Ray Lankester, F. It. S. 
director of the Natural History Departments of 
the British Museum), and Mr. G. A. Boulenger, 
F. R. S. (of the British Museum), for the pur- 
pose of organising another expedition to the same 
regions, to thoronghly survey the basin, not 
only of Lake Tanganyika, but also the unknown 
portions of the northern extension of the great 
series of valleys in which Tanganyika, together 
with Lakes Kivu and the Albert Nyanza, lie; 
to collect specimens of the aquatic fauna and 
flora, and to study the geological history of this 
part of Africa. The latter object of the in- 
vestigation should be of especial interest, for it 
was shown by Mr. Moore that almost without 
exception the shells of the singular series of 
wh«lk-like molluics, captured by him in Tan- 
ganyika, are indistinguishable from those now 
found fossilised in Europe, among the remains of 
old Jurassic seas. It would thus appear that at 
some remote period of time, the great valley of 
Tanganyika was in connection with the sea, and 
that the strangely isolated marine fauna, which 
still inhabits its slightly brackish waters, has 
remained there ever since. So far only the 
Medusae (jelly-fish), the Mollusca, and the 
Crustacea, belonging to this antique fauna, have 
been discovered in the-lake; but when its vast 
size and depth are fully realised, it is unques- 
tionable that by far the larger portion of its 
fauna is as yet unknown. 
Tanganyika thus presents a unique field for 
scientific exploration at the present time, and is, 
indeed, one of the few places now left upon the 
earth where animals (like those peculiar to 
Australia) which have long since become extinct 
elsewhere, may still be found. 
Another notable fact ascertained during Mr. 
Moore’s last expedition, was that the marine, or 
Halolimnic fauna uf Lake Tanganyika does not 
exist in either Nyassa or in Lakes Shirwa, Mwero, 
Bangweolo, or any of the remaining lakes about 
whiejt anything zoological is kpown; but it may 
yet be Found in Lakes Kivu, the Albert Edward 
and Albert Nyanzas, which lie, as has been said, 
in an extension of the same great depression 
which contains the Dead Sea towards the north. 

The probability of this being so, is also increased 
by the curious fact that the fauna of Tanganyika 
hears some resemblance to that of the lower 
portions of the Nile. 
During the present expedition it is therefore 
intended to go north from Tanganyika, which 
will form the zoological headquarters of the ex- 
pedition, through the unknown region which lies 
between Tanganyika and Lake Kivu, on, finally,, 
to tho Albert Edward and Rowenzori districts. 
It is intended then that the expedition shall pass 
eastward, through the Uganda stations north of 
Victoria Nyanza, down the Uganda roads and 
railway to the sea. Mr. Moore’s previous ex- 
p©dition was hampered by the unexpected diffi- 
culties of transport and the want of a steamer 
properly to carry on dreadging and sounding 
operations in the lake, and, in consequence of 
this, much valuable material, particularly large 
specimens of entirely new species of fish, had ta 
bo deliberately left behind. At the present time, 
however, the African Lakes Corporation are 
running the London Missionary Society’s old 
steamer once more upon the lake, and all theso 
deficiencies can therefore now bo overcome, pro- 
vided the necessary funds are raised. 
A careful consideration of the details of the 
expenditure has led the Committee to the con- 
clusion that in order to enable Mr. Moore to 
successfully lead another expedition for two sea- 
sons, and to accomplish th© above-stated objects, 
a sum of not less than 5000/. will be required. 
The Committee have already received encourag- 
ing offers of support, including one of 1000/. 
from a gentleman connected with the commercial 
and political interests of British Africa. They 
point out, however, that tho results to be obtain- 
ed will increase almost in the ratio of the square 
of the initial expenditure; and in a private cir- 
cular, which has been issued, the members of 
the Committee appeal to those who feel interest 
in the objects of the expedition, for assistance in 
carrying out an enterprise which is not only of 
the highest scientific importance, but is also of 
great significance in securing British influence 
in a critical region of the African interior. 

(Nature.) 

BEIRA’S HINTERLAND. 

FALLOW YET FERTILE. 

Latent Wealth. 

A HUNTER'S PARADISE. 

Mr. Leonard Ashby, the well-known profess- 
onal hunter, who has recently returned from a 
two months’trip to the Zambesi River, has been 
inerviewed by our representative. We print 
thet result at length as much of the 'n'o m tion 
elicited is of interest to the general reader,, 
apart from the sportsman. 
“ I left Beira, accompanied by a friend, about 
tho end of last October, The hunting season is 
usually considered over in September, but we 
had no occasion to complain of any scarcity of 
game. Thirty kafirs made up the party" and 
our first destination was the 10 mile, on the 
Beira Railway; thence we travelled in a north 
westerly direction. Within eight miles of the 
point mentioned the kafir kraals may be satid to 
begin in earnest. At no time were we more than 
a day’s journey from a native dwelling or se tlt- 
ment. The countiy affords magnificent induce- 
ments for cultivation on a large scale. Nearly 
every kraal boasts its own patch of ground 
under crop, which varies from two to ten acre* 
in extent. Rice of excellent quality is grown by 
the natives at all the kraals along the route. In 
appearance, this rice is not so white a* the im- 
ported grain but, if the proof of the pudding 
lies in the eating of it, as an article of food the 

4 

THE GAZETTE. 

March 8, 1899. 

GENERAL. 

AFRICA’S FUTURE—WHAT IS IT ? 

native product is to be preferred. It is, more- 
over, by far l he clieapest. Whenever we pur- 
chased we paid at the modest rate of 2^ milreis 
(say 7s. Gd,) per sack, but this was seldom, 
as we usually bartered ’nyama ( meat) in ex- 
change. 
The kafirs also grow sweet potatoes, pump- 
kins, calabashes, native broad-beans, red beans, 
a variety of pea, “mafoonda" kafir corn) and 
•“ macbnbaala. ” The grain of the latter is very 
much like millet in size and appearance, from it 
is manufactured a native beer of much superior 
flavour atid quality to that made from kafir corn 
by the Zulus and natives of Natal. It is a light, 
wholesome and refreshing drink suited to trop- 
ical oonditions and not quite so intoxicating in 
its effect as English ale. The sweet potatoes 
are excellent, the pumpkins, though capital eat- 
ing, do not grow to any great size, doubtless in 
consequence of deficient cultivation and the 
■entire absence of manure. The native beans 
and peas are both succulent and nourishing; in 
point of flavour they compare favourably with 
those of local culture. 
On the higher lands tobocco is grown most 
successfully, but at present, is mostly used for 
snuff making; the art of curing the leaf decently 
for the purposes of smokers, has yet to be 
taught. 
There are practically no serious difficulties to 
discourage the idea of remunerative agriculture 
on a large scale. The great desideratum is an 
efficient means of transport. Neither roads or 
bridges have as yet been constructed. The 
numerous streams which intersect the country 
hare now to be negotiated by means of canoes, 
or by wading the shallow drifts. Thousands of 
acres of well watered land, suitable for rice 
growing are lying fallow. On the higher slopes 
the tobacco plant, which in other places receives 
expert care, grows with no other attention than 
merely sowing the seed, and bedding out the 
young plants. 
The science of agriculture as understood by 
the kafir, is practiced under the most primitive 
conditions. The only implement used, is a 
short pick with a handle about 18 in. long, such 
as may be seen to-day in the Banyan’s shops in 
Beira. Yet with this simple tool and a very 
moderate amount of labour, the native mak**.s 
his fertile little holding yield food enough and 
to spare. To tickle the ground with a hoe and 
make it laugh with harvest obtains here a literal 
significance. 
The picture is not overdrawn. True, the 
locusts have been a serious trouble in past 
seasons, as elsewhere in South Africa, but the 
natives assured us that during the past two year? 
the crops had suffered little or no damage from 
the depredations of these pests. Respecting the 
health of the district, of course the demon 
malaria is only too well known; but on this 
tripit is a noteworthy fact that not a single caso 
of sickness was met with. It is only fair to 
state, however, that the season is regarded by 
:thc natives ns a phenomenally healthy one. 
I have travelled, more or less, over this dis- 
trict every season since 1892, and my opinion as 
to the fertility of the soil, and its suitability for 
agricultural settlement, is the result of six years’ 
■experience, arid is by no means derived from an 
isolate trip in an admittedly favourable season. 
Taking the 28 mile peg on the Beira Railway 
Line as a starting point and travelling almost 
flue north towards the Zambesi River to a point 
about midway between Sena and Shnpanga, the 
country presents an irregular ridge conformation, 
virtually a water-shed falling abruptly towards 
the* West on the one side and sloping gently on 
the Eastern side towards the sea-board. 
Many streams intersect the territory on 
either side of the ridge. Those on the Western 

slope running into the Pungwe River or out on 
to the marshes; whilst the waters of the Easter* 
slope wend their way to the ocean. The Western 
streams are not so numerous as those running 
East and in many instances they fail during the 
dry season. The Eastern streams may mostly 
be regarded as permanent. 
There are several old camps, left by the 
original surveyors of the Beira-Sena Railway, 
to be noticed along portions of the route. These 
would indicate that their projected line was to 
follow the course of the ridge for at least a part 
of its distance. 
The route, however, is not yet determined as 
a fresh survey is to be made. Although, gener- 
ally speaking, the whole district is plentifully 
timbered; the dense forest country begins about 
GO miles from Beira. Here the India-rubber 
vine grows in wild abundance. It has never, to 
my knowledge, been cultivated at all, but sim- 
ply flourishes at its own sweet will; climbing 
around trees of large growth, and hanging in 
wiry, tough festoons from branch to branch and 
trunk to trunk. The natives have often to 
collect the rubber at a great height from the 
ground, and much of it is actually inaccessible 
through the denseness of the tree growth. If 
the vine were cultivated this would be obviated 
and its yield of rubber largely increased. At 
present, to gather a kilo a day is considered fair 
work for one kafir. 
Assuredly, a great future lies before this por- 
tion of the Mozambique Province when develop- 
ed into a rice, maize, tobacco and rubber-pro- 
ducing district; as should happen when the 
Beira-Sena line taps these most fertile lands. 
With regard to sport we were extremely for- 
tunate considering the lateness of the season. 
The principal items bagged were three elephants, 
nine hippos, six buffaloes, five eland hulls, three 
sable antelopes and an excellent variety of other 
game. On two aecasions the spoor of the black 
rhinoceros was noted but not followed up. Evi- 
dences of the near presence of lions were very 
frequent, but none were sighted the cover being 
too thick at this time of the year. 
The natives were tractable and obliging, 
being apparently quite contended with their lot. 
It speaks well for the efficiency of Portuguese 
rule that two strangers should he able to traverse 
so large a tract of country without the necessity 
of escort or precautionary measures. 
The then Commandante of the Cheringoma 
District, Senhor Francisco Luiz Moreira Loforte, 
was invariably obliging during the term of our 
stay in this paradise of the hunter. The court- 
eous treatment we received compels pur grateful 
recognition. 
As already stated, the health of the party 
continued excellent throughout the trip, which, 
taken altogether, was both lucrative and enjoy- 
able, being such as rarely falls to the lot of the 
professional hunter during the off season.” 

The Beira Post, 

BEKANNTMACHUNOr. 
In das liiesige Firmenregister wurde 
lieute unter. No. 10 die Firma “ C. 
Zschaetzsch” mit dem Sitze in Mukesa 
und ak deren Inhaber Kaufmann Carl 
Georg Zschaetzscli in Muhesa einge- 
tragen. 

Tanga, den 23 Februar 1899. 

Der Kaiserliche Bezirksrichler. 

ZIEGLRK 

A STRANGE TROPHY 

When Lieutenant Grenfell’s body was re- 
covered after the charge of the 21st Lancers at 
Omdurman, it was found that one of the many 
blows aimed at the gallant Lancer had penetrated 
his watch. The watch was returned to his fami- 
ly, who have decided to have it mounted as a 
memorial of the deceased officer. A spear thrust 
lias penetrated through both the outer and inner 
covers, and driven some of the works rigid 
through to the face of the dial, stopping the 
hands at 8,39, indicating the time at which*the 
charge took place, and the precise moment of 
the wearer’s death. It is proposed to mount the 
watch on a square block of crystal far use as an 
inkstand. 

LORD DELAMERE. 

Lord Delambre the whereabouts of whose 
expedition has been the theme of so much con- 
jecture, has arrived in London, having been away 
in British East Africa for over two years. He 
took Home a wonderful collection of sporting 
trophies and some splendid specimens of ivory 
tusks, several single tusks weighing over lOOlbs. 
The “ bag” includes lions, giraffe, antelope, of 
great variety of species, and elephants. The 
latter Avert* found in numbers in the Rendili 
country, and in the neighbourhood of Lake 
Baringo. Lord Delamere has also collected 
geographical data of part of the country he 
traversed which has never been explored before, 
so that the results of his expedition which was 
mainly undertaken for the sake of sport should 
also contribute to the knowledge of the physical 
features of the country especially that part lying 
to the south of Lake Rudolph, towards Lake 
Baringo. Diamond Fields Advertiser. 

CONGO STATE COFFEE. 

The shipment of coffee of poor quality des- 
patched to Antwerp from the Congo Free State 
last January has now been followed by a further 
shipment, which experts declare to be a consi- 
derable improvement over the previous samples 
tested at the beginning of the year. The Congo 
coffee, whilst resembling the Ambriz product 
cultivated in the Portuguese colonies in Africa, 
is said to he far superior to it. It has a plea- 
sant although somewhat unusual taste, and by 
admixture will facilitate the burning process of 
other and better qualities of berry where the 
flavour is not affected. The tests made show 
generally that considerable progress has been 
made in the method of cultivation and treatment 
of the coffee raised near Stanly Falls. 

SOAP AND OIL COMPANY. 

The shares of the Compagnie des Huileries at 
SaA’onneries de Mozambique were last week in- 
trodueed on the Paris market at 100 francs and 
are now being dealt in at a premium of 20 francs. 
This concern has obtained a concession for the 
exclusive manufacture of oil and soap in the 
province of Mozambique for a period of twelve 
years; .and it is estimated that the factorv, 
now being constructed at Quelimane, on the 
Zambesi \\*ill have an annual productive capaci- 
ty of 2,400 tons. Thq principal market for this 
prodigious quantity of soap is to he the Trans- 
vaal. I only hope, for the sake of the share- 
holders, that the company will be able to 
dispose of it and. the concern may do something to 
this end by istructing the Boers in the method 
of using til's article of toilette—TV Critic 

March 8,1899. 

THE GAZETTE. 

A german journal’s speculations 

One of the best commercial newspapers in 
Vienna, the Handels und Bvrsenbericht, says, 
under the heading of “The Market of the Twen- 
tieth Century”: — 
General Kitchener went in eight days from 
Pashoda to London, and as the railway reaches 
Khartoum, and a regular line of steamers plies 
between that town and the large affluents of the 
Nile, which will certainly be the case in two or 
three year’s, the Equator will he reached from 
London in about ten days, and from Vienna in 
eight, and the present generation will see an ex- 
press train running from Alexandria to Cape 
Town. 
Then a new world will have been opened up 
—a world of inestimable commercial value; as 
it seams to us, of greater value than China, be- 
cause, excellent as China will be as a market, 
it will not be long before the industrious and 
clever Chinese enter into competition with Eu- 
ropean industry. A Chinaman is able to make 
silmost e\*erything,. whereas Africa will, for the 
next hundred years, only be a consumer. At 
any rate, for the next fifty years after the open- 
ing np of Africa by an Alexandria to- the Cape 
Railway, an. enormous market Avill be secured 
for the indugtry of all countries—a market ex- 
tending with the gradual advance of civilization, 
sind bound to exercise an influence on the evo- 
lution of the social question in Europe, since the 
millions of workers will find from it employ- 
ment they would otherwise have lacked. 
The advantage Avill, in the first place, fall to 
Britain, which in Africa is securing bread for 
two generations of her millions of toilers. The 
Egyptian Question being regarded from this 
point of vieAv, everybody ivill understand that 
Britain is ready Eventually to fight for an open 
road from Cairo to Cape Town. The British 
occupation of Egypt lias proved an enormous 
blessing to the land of the Pharaohs, and should 
England determine sooner or later to annex the 
whole of Egypt, in one form or another, she 
would have the sympathy of all true friends of 
Egypt. But greater still would be the service 
to her own industry of all. European countries, 
by opening up Africa from one end to the oilier 
as a market. 

LADY CURZON. 

A BELGALI APPRECIATION 

The editor of the Bengali newspaper tlie “Ban- 
gabasi,” has seen Lady Ourzon, and has penned 
sin article on her ladyship thus:— 
“Our Viceroy is an accomplished gentleman, 
and no less accomplished is his lady. Marriage 
is a divine dispensation, beyond human control, 
smd seldom are husband and wife so well-matched 
sis have been matched Lord and Lady Ourzon.” 
“Lady Gurzon has inherited all the virtues of 
her father. The father is a man of iron resolu- 
tion. He possesses unfailing perseverance and 
never gives np the pursuit; upon which he has 
set his heart. The daughter resembles the fa- 
ther in this respect. She, too, possesses unshak- 
able resolution, and has the patience to wait for 
the fulfilment of her purpose. Womanly fickle- 
ness can never disturb her heart. The father is 
far-sighted and can, from a study of the present, 
infer what the future will be. The daughter has 
inherited this rare gift from her father. The 
daughter, like the father, can also keep her head 
cool in the midst of trying difficulties. 
“Through the grace of God, Lady Mary has 
been born the daughter of a rich, wise and ac- 
complished father. She has come to the world 
endowed with keen intelligence. J 

(Wilson’s translation of “Meghduta.”) 

The first best work of the Creator’s hand: 

“With her rare intellectual gifts she combines 
in herself rare personal charms. In her, virtue 
and beauty have reeu splendidly blended, and, 
figuratively speaking, she is like a diamond set 
in gold or the full moon in the clear autumnal 
sky. It is very rarely that we find beauty so 
wedded to virtue. As a general rule, where we 
find beauty we do not find virtue, and where we 
find virtue we do not find beauty. Nothing but 
singular good luck endows a person with both 
virtue and beauty, and it must be a woman’s rare 
good fortune if she happens to rival Rati (wife 
of the god of love) in beauty, arid Saraswati 
(goddess of learning) in intelligence. But Lady 
Curzon is something more than this. She rivals 
Rati in beauty, Saraswati in intelligence, and 
Lakshmi (goddess of wealth) in the profuseness of 
her worldly possessions—she is the gifted, ac- 
complished and learned daughter of a millionaire. 
In beauty she closely approaches the poet’s 
ideal: — 
“ ‘There in the fane, a beauteous creature stands, 
Whose teeth like pearls, whose lips like Bimbas 
show, 
And fawn-like eyes still tremble as they glow.’ 
“Her colour is like that of molten gold, its 
whiteness having already assumed a tinge of 
red in the warm climate of this country. Her 
teeth are like a set of pearls. Her waist is 
beautifully slender. Her “raven tresses,’ setting 
off the whiteness of her white complexion, make 
her look like the very image of Saraswati. Her 
well-shaped head with its black hair is beautifully 
placed upon her swanlike neck. Her eyes are 
not dark, neither are they tinged with red. Their 
colour is rather handsomely purple. Ever rest- 
less as they are, they are beaming with intelli- 
gence. Lady Curzon bears in her handsome 
person all the auspicious marks of prosperity. 
Her forehead is small and narrow". Her neck is 
like the neck of the swan, and her voice resem- 
bles the voice of the cuckoo. As we have al- 
ready said her eyes sparkle with intelligence— 
her eyes, which are silently eloquent. At first 
sight, her face looks like the face of a proud 
woman. But look at it closely and you will find 
it not pride, but self-reliance. Lady Curzon wants 
to lead and not to be led; she wants to rule and 
not to he ruled. In childhood she was the leader 
of girls like herself. In youth she has been the 
leader of young women. Now she is the leader of 
millions*of men and women. Lady Curzon knows 
how to rule. 
“In fact, she seems to have been bom and 
bred to rule—as if Nature has endowed her with 
rare and noble virtues advisedly with the object 
of making her the consort of India’s Governor- 
General. Lady Curzon rules not only the society 
of women, but also the society of men. To seo 
her is to respect and revere her. 

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 
WeekEnding, Gth March 1899. 

Temperature. 

Barometer, d.b. w.b. max. min. rain 
8a.m. 8a.m ,8a.m. 24hrs 24hrs Ina 
Tuesday Feb. 2!) 29.JI98 83.3 7G.3 89.5 80.9 0.00 
Wednesday Mar, 1 30.026 83.1 76.3 88.9 80.0 0.0o 
Thursday „ 2 29.984 62.9 75.3 90.2 80.4 0.00 
Friday 3 30.012 83.4 76.1 89.3 80.9 0.00 
Saturday „ 4 30,030 83.5 7<i.5 89.7 77.9 0.00 
Sunday* „ 5 30.000 83,2 70.0 89.9 81.0 0.00 
Monday „ G 29.990 83.8 76'9 87.9 81.3 0.00 
Weekly means. 30.006 S3.3 7G.2 89 3 80!3 0.00 
Total for! ’ 
the week / 
Total Rainfall to 28st February 1899. 1. 36 Inches 

F. CHARLES WORTH. 

THE FUTURE OF AFRICA. 

There is perhaps no subject which leads to 
such diversity of opinion, not only between 
politicians and armchair philosophers at 
home, but also between men of actual ex- 
perience in Africa as the question of its 
future. On the one hand we hear glowing 
accounts of the great empire which 
Britain is to weld out of her African pos- 
sessions, of the primary necessity of Bri- 
tain securing these potential trade areas 
for the benefit of future generations; and 
on the other we are told that our African 
possessions are a white elephant, that they 
are made up of fever swamps for tho most 
part, and that, with the exception of the 
Cape and the Nile valley, our vast African 
territories are a huge encumbrance. Whe- 
ther the first party or the second is right 
we will not presume to say, possibl}* we may 
be allowed to hazard tho opinion that both 
parties, being extremists, are equally wrong 
and that the truth lies in that i'ia ti/rdin 
which is so hard to find but so easy to'speak 
about. Again, it may be taken as certain ■ 
that Africa will not yield up its treasures, 
mineral or vegetable, without the judicious 
expenditure of capital and the liberal ex- 
penditure of energy. The same qualities 
which are needed in Canada or Australia 
are required in Africa but to an even greater 
degree and the sooner people at home rea- 
lise, as they have to a certain extent rea- 
lised in the case of Australia, that it is the 
very worst thing they can do to send their 
uudersirables out here, the better, not only 
for themselves and for the undersirables, 
but also for tho country they are sent to. 
The value to Britain in tho future of tropic- 
al Africa depends therefore not upon ad- 
ventitious aids but upon the amount of 
foresight and energy ..we spend wisely in de- 
veloping our various possessions. One’thing is 
certain, we along with otherEuropean nations 
are here, and the practical question lies be- 
fore us that we must make the best of our 
bargain whether it turn out good or bad in 
the long run. Having accepted these res- 
ponsibilities we must bear them honestly 
and not try to back out and leave things 
worse confounded than when we found 
them. In considering the future of tropical 
Africa, tve should try and work from facts 
and not from visionary theories and while 
numbers of people are expatiating on the 
various products which might be grown we 
thiuk that the hard won experience of B. 
C. A. is not sufficiently taken into account. 
So for as wo are aware a great deal more 
stress should bo laid on the fact that B. C 
A. has got an export. Most of tho other 
parts of tropical Africa depend for their re- 
venue upon some article indigenous to the 
country, like rubber orivory, which is only- 
limited in quantity, or upon such native 
products as oil seeds which are grown by 
the native and in which the white man 
simply plavs tho part of the temporary 
trading resident. Here, however, we have 
a planting industry and the nucleus of a sta- 
ble planting population. Capital has been 
sunk in- the country and despite all that 
can be said against the industry by pes- 
simists, the results have been moat encour- 
againg. Common sens® would therefore 

March 8, 1899, 

March 8, 1899. 

G    
argue that such an industry should be helped 
as possible by Government and we believe 
such help would be forthcoming if the real 
state of matters were known. The fact is 
we are too unassuming. We want to ad- 
vertise ourselves more and draw more at- 
tention to what has been done in the 
past and what could be done were more 
capital available. We are glad to see that 
Government has adopted a much better 
attitude towards the planting industry .but 
strange to say they have not yet seen the 
heed for an expert Agricultural 'Chemist 
although nearly every other tropical 
country is finding out that he is essential, 
and, what is more, in most cases getting 
tliis essential supplied. However we need 
not despair when Government has gone the 
length of a Commission to enquire, into 
Malaria. That was a step in the right di- 
rection and, as Mr. Halliwell’s letter points 
out, all residents in B. C. A. are grateful 
to Mr. Secretary Chamberlain for his con- 
sideration. Still we repeat, when ^Dr. 
Morris can be sent to revivify the languish- 
irig industries of the West Indies, Govern- 
ment ought to remember the old adage 
that a “stitch in time saves nine” and that 
when private capital and industry have 
founded an export in Tropical Africa such 
an industry should he encouraged as far as 
possible. The same argument applies to 
the railway and it seems to us very hard 
that Uganda, which has cost so much in 
blood and treasure, should get its railwai" 
before it even has a single export while we 
here are left out in the cold. It will of 
course he said that there is a political rea- 
son for the Uganda railway hut the same 
may he said of B. C. A. While there are 
enormous difficulties to be overcome in the 
case of Uganda, in B. C. A.. we have every 
natural facility. The solution of the Af- 
rican question lies in such industries as the 
coffee planting of B. C. A., and with a 
thousand ton crop before us we should 
pluck up energy to go ahead and if possible 
win that recognition which we believe we 
deserve.— 77/e Central African Times. 

BEKANNTMACHUN Gr. 
Die Voroeffentlichiing der im Jahre 
1899 zu bewirkenden Eintragungen 
im Handel sregister des Geriolits fuer 
den Suedbezirk von Deufcch-Ostafrika 
wird ausser duveh die in der diessci- 
l.lgon Bekanntmachung vom 21. 
biovembei' 1898 aufgefuchrten oeffen- 
teiehen Blaetter, noch ferner in der 
neu gegruendeten, zn Daressalaam 
nrsebeinenden. 

Deutch- Ostafrikanichen Zeitimg 

■erfblgen. 

Daressalaam, den 28 Februar 1899. 
Der Kaiserliche Bezirksrichter. 

In Vertretung, 

ALT. 

THE GAZETTE. 

BEKANNTMACHUNG. 

Die im diesseitigen GeselUclmfts- 
register unter No 1 eingetragene Han- 
delsgesellsohaft “Gebriider Kroussos” 
ifitgeloscht worden. 

Tanga, den 23 Februar 1899. 

Der Kaiserliche Bezirksrichter. 

ZIEGLER. 

BEKANNTMACHUNG. 

Es wird nochmals bekannt gegeben, 
dass das Kaiserliche Gouvernement 
auf den Holzlagerplaetzen im Rufiyi- 
Delta Hoelzer an folgenden Preisen 
verkauft. 
100 Stueek Fites 1 Ep. 
1 Ceria Tungun 
1 ,, Makasia 1 
1 „ Mapao 1 
1 ,, Makombamoyo 

20 Pesa 
40 „ 
32 „ 

(a) ungerindet 1 
(5) gerindet 2 

Coria Madjenga 

(a) unausgesucht 1 
(6) ausgesueht 1 

Coria Boriti 

40 „ 

16 
32 

(a) Sckwaeckere 3 
(b) Si aerkere 4 
(c) Sehr starke 5-6 
Coria Eeuerholz 1 

20 
Der Kaiserliche Gouverneur. 

Von obigen vom Kaiserlichen Gou- 
vernement ofierirten Hoelzern balten 
wir Lager bei den Herren 

Wm. O’Swald & Co. Zanzibar, 

welche ueber Preise und Bedingungen 
Auskunft ertheilen. 

Rufiji Industrie Gesellschaft 

m. b. H. 

‘M 4 d . 

^HL C-T'H'llHl ^ vp'H aHlH'URi S d 
dfldl SHFICH oVHi «UMi 6 
rtiit dial OUH 

loo 
1 
1 
1 
1 

dm i!ldl 

miidW 

■HiR’-'tolsli 
i. »[<H Wdi 
•>M. tsUH %U«Wi 

4. 431141 
Vi. 

Mtiyi 
>> 
lo 
Vo 
31 

Vo • 

n 
31 

i. -Mlrti-n 3 ,, 
M. «*ft v „ 
H<5jl M-S „ 
"imm sttwi i 

(Mdl ^ iHiyi yMMl 4R- 
S1R wl'H'l SHl'fl S cid JV;l 
^ <Hl'lcU<ad Mid 41 wblMG Md 

SllMHl-aidl i\dlMi yteMlte Wdkl 

41=1 MtSl aHW h% 6. 

Hi i Hdl. 
In H.B. M’s. COURT FOR ZANZIBAR. 

Pbobate asd Administration. 

Cause No. 6 of 1899. 

Notice of application for administration 
of the Estate of Kariinji Davodji late of 
Zanzibar deceased. 

Take notice, that application having been 
made in this Court by Mahmadbhai 
Davodji of Zanzibar for the administration of 
the Estate of Karimji Davodji late of Zan- 
zibar deceased, the Judge of this Court will 
proceed to make a decree in the same unless 
cause he shown to the contrary and 
appearance in this respect entered on or 
before the 10th day of March 1899. 

FRANCIS J. COLLINSON. 

Acting Judge 

Zanzibar, 

2nd March, 1899. 

In H. B. M’s. COURT FOR ZANZIBAR. 

Probate and Administration. 

Cause No. 12 of 1898. 

Notice of issue letters of Administration 
of the Estate of the late Dhalla Rhemtoola 
Pursuant to an order of H.B.M. .Consular 
1 Court at Zanzibar granting Letters of ad- 
ministration in the estate of the late Dhalla 
, Rehmtoola deseased, who died at Zanzibar on 
. the 8th day ef May 1898 all creditors and 
1 others having claims upon the estate of the 
above-named deceased are required to 
| send in writing the particulars of their debts, 
: claims, or demands, to Bai Mongibai widow of 
Dhalla. Rhemtoola who has been appointed 
administratix on or before the 18th day 
of February 1899. 

FRANCIS J. COLLINSON. 

Acting Judge, 

H. B. M. Court. 

Zanzibar', 

18th February, 1899. 

Date. 
March 7 
8 
„ 9 
„ 10 
„ 11 
„ 12 
13 

HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 
Morning. Afternoon. 
h. 
m 
11 
54 
12 
30 
2 
15 
•2 
8 
3 
57 
4 
39 
4 
19 
A. Le. P. AGNEW, 

m. 
4 
44 
9 
41 
33 
19 
59 

h. 
11 
1 
2 
3 
3 
4 
5 

Port Ollicer. 

LOCAL NEWS. 

H. H. the Sultan drove out to Koani 
House on Tuesday the 7th inst. and visited 
Machui his large and extensive plantation 
1J miles from Koani, which is now being 
worked by Mr. Lyne. His Highness was 
accompanied by General Sir Lloyd W. Ma- 
thews, Mr. Alexander and Mr. Lyne. 
After inspecting the ruins of the large 
fortified house in which Seyyid Bargaslr 
fought his brother Majid, H. H. walked 
over the plantation and then went to Koani 
spending the day there and returning to 
town in the evening. His Highness'was 
met by the principal local Arabs at Mwera 
who mustered there at an early hour with 
Seyyid Serhan bin Nassow the Governor of 
the district, in order to pay their respects 
to him. 

Lord Newborough arrived here on Thurs- 
day last in his yacth “Fedora, accompanied 
by bis sister the Hon. Miss Wynn and 
Dr. Jennings. They are leaving to-day 
for Mombasa whence they intend to go up 
the line for a fortnight’s shooting. They 
return to Zanzibar to coal prior to going 
‘Home’ via the Cape. 
Lord Newborough has been cruising 
round in the eastern seas for the past 
eighteen months. The voyage from Cey- 
lon to Zanzibar occupied 13 days. ‘ 

The dinner given at the Usagara House 
on Monday night by Mr. and Mrs. Schultz, 
who are shortly leaving Zanzibar, was a 
great success. Among the many guests 
present were, Count Hardenberg, Colonel 
de Castro, Mr. and Mrs. Kestell-Cornish, 
Mr. Nicol and Mr. and Mrs. Wilson! 
Brig: General Raikes and Judge Collinson 
being hindered by special duty in partici- 
pating in the dinuer.jcined the company later. 
Singing and dancing followed the'grand 
dinner and it was not until a late hour 
before the party broke up. 
 :o:  

On Saturday last a sailing handicap was 
arranged by Captain A. Le P. Agnew for 
the boats of the ships in harbour for a 
Silver Cup presented by H. H. the Sultan. 
The course was 9 miles in length viz: 
starting from H.M.S. “Barracoota'’ twice 
round mark buoys off Pange Reef and 
Mbweni Point. The wind which had been 
steady at North all the forenoon dropped 
considerable about 1. p. m. and veered 
to N. E. at which point it remained during 
the race though with varying strength. In 
all ten boats entered for the race which was 
closely contested, but unfortunately the 
shift of wind had made the course a simple 
matter of sailing with what is known as a 
“Soldiers wind.’’ The following is the order 
of finishing:— ' . 
.. ^ h. m. s. 
1. BarracoutaDinghy, Lt.Peel 1 9 12 
2. Fedora’s Gig, Lord New- 
3. Nyanza’s Whaler, Juma 

borough 1 29 15 
Nasib 1 43 10 
Mr. and Mrs. Pestalozza and their little | 
aughter, Col. de Castro, the Captain and i 

THE GAZETTE. 

Officers of the “Staffetta,’’ Mr. Pescbier 
and Mr. Coster formed a picnic party on 
Saturday and spent the day at Koani, 
returning to town in the cool of the even- 
ing' " « 

On the 1st. inst. Mr J. Smith who is 
shortly leaving for Calcutta, was enter- 
tained to dinner by the members of the 
English Club, and in recognition of his 
services as Treasurer of the Club was pre- 
sented with a silver cigarette box. 
Mr. Smith has made a good many friends 
during his stay in Zanzibar, not a few 
being among the Indian merchants who 
have had business transactions with him, 
and who will doubtless miss him when he 
goes. 

Christ Church Cathedral 

ZANZIBAR- 
LENT 1899 

ENGLISH SERVICES 
Sundays. 8. 30 Holy Eucharist 
9 30 Morning Prayer 
4. 35 Evensong & Sermon 
by Rev. F. Weston 

w ednesdays 8. 0 Holy Eucharist 
Fridays 8. 0 Holy Eucharist 

5. 0 Evensong & Psalm 5 L, etc 
5. 0 Evensong & Address 

EXCHANGE 
Chartered Bank 

Bank demand drafts on London. 

Rs a. p. Per £ 

s. s. “Kihoa” of the Zanzibar Govern- 
ment arrived from Bombay early on Mon- 
day moring. 

A Banyan not known in Zanzibar ■ and 
supposed to have been a resident of Pemba, 
became a convert to Mahomedanism last 
week. As is the rule on such occasions, a 
big procession was formed, the convert 
mounted on a horse and paraded through 
the principal streets, with music and flags. 
Some 500 men followed in the train ot the 
procession. 

Wednesday, March 1| 14 ! 15. 0. 
Thursday, 
Friday, 
Saturday 
Monday, 
Tuesday, 
» 45tl!sl Rt41aUU«fl w'sUHGrfl SniRi 

14  15. 
14 15. 
15. 
15. 

7 14 15. 0. 

0. 

It will not be long before the German, 
Mombasa and Muscat pice disappear alto- 
gether from Zanzibar, for, since the notice 
issued by the Government prohibiting 
their use and circulation, all merchants and 
shop-keepers have been busy sorting them 
out and (disposing of them, though not 
without a good deal of grumbling and loss. 
It is a great pity that the smaller shop 
keepers and natives have to suffer from the 
greed of larger importers. 

H. M. S. “Rrtrracoitfa” after some eight 
months’ duty in these waters, left for the 
Cape this morning. The H. M. S. “Tartar’’ 
has taken her place. 

BAND PROGRAMME. 

VICTORIA GARDEN. 

Wednesday, 15tii March 1899. 

Overture 

Names 

Composer. 

No. 1. March l'Thr *l,y girl” Hume 
2. Selection “// ihui Giovanni” Godfrey 
3. Valse 11 In the twilight” Coote 
4. Mazurka “Lov<?« greeting” Faust. 
5. Polka “Bine Beard” 
I Meyer 
l Lutz. 

Hymn. H. H. the Sultan’s. 

CAMILLOA. SALDANHA, 

Band Master. 

MVtR 4l«tl R&MgStGfl 
'tiUtlrt Hen tHPHrl 

'4K-U oy ^lo 

<:4l 4 1^;! full 
a41 ril<H4ct3 as'hHirt Mq} qc-flst 
^IHWMlril ^GiSl i^c-u (4iq41 
!G4l4l*ti SHia S % ytlSll aqri ufl- 
<3M«U apMGril HlC-tirt @41 £1 
£141 §14 4iairil £l£(4l C-r“{lri 4lfl- 
=*44 'tl'4^ weilHJ-fl "HW RpIMiff RMllril 
<l'44l qsacd 41144I41 shKI tf riri cUe 
Vril «gstifcf ui'K ytflqi Shi'-fl 541441. 

FRANCIS J. COLLINSON. 

Acting Judge, 

SRGGtUl e?. UlC-tUniri. 

SLlPl a/.tar. 

tfCWH aio uHt Vwofl XCUtr. 

RCfUl RWlcriRlril wauHnril SlliRi 

Hirlfitlct >151441 

*4 ^ . 

ailrill S^l>iS5 £l@t^ril rilCHirt^’ 4sq. 
sua 4rt? >lC444l 4(«£1>UW {Kaijj 
3l SHtSi $1124 anisy ^ g Jjq 
4 441 ?4ld ilRiit rt[o qoril 4134 Xtl't' 
yHl4i afilrilri iiW 4HI '4414« 4<0 rit 
=Hl5l ?GA4l c/iW qi§'4 ri -41-44 414141 
ysill »H14^. 

FRANCIS J. COLLINSON. 

Acting- Judge. 

SlSftrt^R. 

SliR's! s/St/. 

ISAAC dk .SOUZA, 

2nd Band Master. 

nf3i'4n 4h ■ l 41^51 

Vol. VIII. No. 372] 

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 15, 1899. 

[PRICE TWO ANNAS. 

THE GAZETTE. 

March 8,1399. 

THE HOTEL ROYAL 

U^mbasa Starts, 

Vasco da Gama Shteet, 

Vasco da Gama Street-Mombasa. 

(Opposite The Mombasa Club.) 

SUPPLIERS OP 

^Provisions of all kinds, Olotiling’, cfec. 
UP-COUNTRY ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED TO AND TRANSPORT 

ARRANGED. 

CAMP AND SAFARI REQUISITES, 

STATIONERY, FURNITURE, CUTLERY, PLATED GOODS, 

HARDWARE, &°. &c. &c. 

   t 

Sill Goods ordered, and not in Stock, will be procured at (Earliest 

TGpportunittj. 

Our Stock is a great deal wider and more varied than our Lsist, which quotes 
only those goods in daily nonsumption and use'. Up-country customer are requested 
therefore, not to confine their orders to the goods quoted, but, using the List only as a 
guide, to order according to their requirements. 

No goods will be sent out that are not in perfect condition, and our experienced 
Packers will take every possible precaution to secure satisfactory condition on arrival. 
But we do not accept responsibility for risks incurred in transit. 

TERMS .—Gash, or Monthly accounts to approved Customers. 

First class Hotel just opened near 
the landing- stairs, and in view of the 
harbour. Good accomodation for eleven 
bedrooms. 

Terms Moderate. 

Telegraphic Address 

“ BOYAL MOMBASA.” 

R W GELDART 

COMMISSION MERCHANT 
SO cfe 3II_ So. "William St 

NEw York U. S. A. 

Dealer in all kinds of Amer- 
ican Products. Kerosine and 
Cotton goods a speciality. 

Correspondence solicited. 

RETURN OF STEAMRS’ SALINGS DURING THE WEEK ENDING 4th MARCH 1899. 

Jkl.S.N. Co. s.s. ••VADALA" To Colombo 

Sailed on 8rd March 1899. 

B. E. A. P. s.s. “JUBA” To B. E. A. Ports Sailed on 4th 

March 1899. 

Z’barl Govt. s.s. “BAKAWA” To South Sailed on 4th 

March 1899. 

Produce 

Various 
Passengers 

Pkges 

Colombo 

Produce. 

Lamu 

Durnford 

Kismayu 

Produce 

Mayotte 

Johanna 

Various 
Passengers 

Pkges 172 
47 

Pkges 18 
Pkges 
i 
I 

Pkges 1149 Various 

Passengers 

Pkges 1741 

Pkges 1052 Pkg. 

135 
24 

M. Mnritimos s.s. "DJEMNAH" To Marseilles Sailed on 27th February 1890. 

M. Mari times s.s. ‘PEI-UO” To South Sailed on 27th February 1899. 

London Marseilles Rotterdam 

New-Yerk  Genoa 

Produce 

Mayotte 

Majunga 

Nossi-Be ' Tamatavo 

Cloves 
Clovestems 
Gum & gum Copal 
Copra 
Ivory 
Tortoise shells 
Hides 
Orchella weed 
Passengers 

Cases G3|Cases 4 
'Bags 2474 
Cases 21 
Cases 5 IB’dles 2 
Bales 154 
11 

Bales 150 

Bales 261 

Various 
Passengers 

Pkges 

Pkees 

Pkges 

24 
8 

Hajic Casum s. s. “MERZAPORE” To Jeddah Sailed on 28th Fob. 1899, 

Produce f 

Jeddah 
Cloves Bales 16 
Cocoanut ,Bags 241 
Various Pkges 1467 

ROB. V- COSTER, 
Collector of Customs. 

ITALY AND CHINA. 

FRENCH INTERFERENCE. 

ITALY OFFENDED. 

London 8th March, 1899. 

The Times' correspondent at Peking 
states that the French Minister on 24th 
February warned the Tsungliyamen of the 
Italian demands and counselled their im- 
mediate rejection. 
Reuter’s agent at Peking states that 
owing to the contemptuous wording of the 
reply, the Italian Minister declines further 
direct communication with the Tsungliya- 
men. 
It is positively denied in Paris that 
France advised the Tsungliyamen to reject 
the Italian demands which had been ap- 
proved. 

ITALIAN SQUADRON IN 

CHINESE WATERS. 

9 th March. 

Admiral Grenet aboard R. I. M- 
Stromboli sails from Venice in the course 
of a few days to command the Italian 
squadron of six ships which are concentrat- 
ing in Chinese waters. 

CHINA’S SLIGHT TO ITALY. 

13i7i March. 

It has transpired that the Tsungliyamen 
rejected the Italian demands by simply re- 
turning their Minister’s note and the Min- 
ister now insists on their taking hack the 
note, intimating that in case of compliance 
the Italian Government will enter into 
friendly negotiations and go into details of 
the lease. 
ACTION OF THE ITALIAN MINISTER. 

ITALY’S GREAT ALLY. 

14<A March. 

Reuter’s agent at Peking states that the 
Tsungliyamen has informed the Italian 
Minister Martino that it agrees to receive 
back the Italian note, but nothing has been 
said indicating China’s willingness to agree 
to the demand of San Moon. 
In the House of Commons brief discuss- 
ions have taken place regarding the San 
Moon question and- Mr. Brodrick stated 
that if Italy can by. diplomacy secure the 
concession Great Britain shall welcome 

Italy's appearance in China, as British 
policy is to safeguard her own interests and 
not obstruct friendly powers. 

THE SUGAR QUESTION. 
INDIAN GOVERNMENT AND 

BOUNTYFED SUGARS. 

8th March. 

The Indian Government introduces on 
Friday first a Bill to impose countervailing 
duties on bountyfed sugars. 

BILL TO BE INTRODUCED 

IMPOSING DUTIES. 
St. KITTS PETITION 
Mr. CHAMBERLAIN. 

Uth March. 

The Bill to impose countervailing duties 
on bountyfed sugars has been introduced 
by the Indian Legislative Council and the 
Government propose to pass the Bill this 
session. 
The members of the Legislature of St. 
Kitts and the leading inhabitants have 
petitioned Mr. Chamberlain praying him 
to transfer the Island to the United States, 
failing the abolition of sugar bounties. 

BILL INTRODUCED. 

Viih March. 

Lord George Hamilton stated in the 
House that the sugar Bill had been intro- 
duced with his approval and that it is not 
intended to interfere with the independ- 
ence of local legislature. 
The Morning Post in an article approv-; 
ing of this Bill says, that the general ques- j 
tion of taxing sugar will probably now > 
come under the review of the English Ex- * 
chequer. 

THE PLAGUE. 

8th March. 

The Plague has greatly increased in 

Bombay. 

THE TULON EXPLOSION. 

9th March. 

There are numerous proofs that the ex- 
plosion which occurred at Tulon whereby 
58 were killed and 132 wounded was the 
result of foul play, hut as yet the exact 
cause is nnknown. 

ENGLAND AND CHINA. 

THE NEWCHWANG LOAN. 

Sir Claude Macdonald has informed th® 
Tsungliyamen that any attempt to repu" 
diate the NewChwang Loan contract will 
be considered a serious breach of faith 
meriting retribution. 

l\th March. 

Reuter’s agent at Peking states, that 
consequent on the negotiations between 
Russia and England Mr. Giers withdraws 
the protest to the NewGhwang Loan. 
Mr. Brodrick speaking in the House of 
Commons added that he has reason to be- 
lieve the protest will not be renewed. 

THE PEACE CONFERENCE. 

The Disarmament conference meets at 

Hague on the 28th May. 

llf/( March. 

Mr. RHODES IN THE REICHSTAG. 
13t/i March. 

Mr. Rhodes had an audience with the 
German Emperor on the evening of the 
11th, and attended a sitting of the Reich- 
stag where, while his mission was dis- 
cussed several speakers recalled the Jame- 
son Raid and Mr. Rhodes’ unfriendliness 
towards Germany. 
The German Colonial Secretary said, 
that permission to carry the trans-African 
railway through German territory would 
only be possible provided German interests 
were everywise guaranteed. 

MADAGASCAR. 

During a sitting of the French Cham- 
bers M. Brunet complained of the defence- 
lessness of Madagascar ports, and M. 
Etienne hoped that French trade was being 
protected by tariffs against English in- 
roads. 
The French Minister for the Colonies 
sketched the progress which had been 
effected, and hoped to see Madagascar a 
flourishing Colony. 

M. FALL IEEE S. 

M. Fallieres has been elected President of 

the Senate. 

