S. !i. “Setos" arrived from South on the 

•22nd and sailed for India on the 26th. 

S.s. “Mpanjnka” returned from South on 

the 22nd. 

S. S. “Goa” arrived in harbour on the 

25th and left for India on the 27th. 

S. S. “ Kan/lor” arrived from South on 
the 24th and sailed for Europe on the 26th. 
S. S. “Saghalien” left for Europe on the 

27th. 

S. S. "Woodcock” arrived from Kismayu 

on the 26th. 

S. S “Irrawady” arrived from Europe 

to-day. 

advance of the Canadians and Royal Engi- 
neers, supported by the Gordon High- 
landers and Shropshire Regiment brought 
them within 80 yards of the enemy’s tren- 
ches. This gallant deed apparently clinched 
matters for daylight yesterday brought a 
letter from General Cronje that he surren- 
dered. He himself arrived in Camp at 
7.0 a. m. In the course of conversation he 
hoped for kind treatment also that his 
wife, grandson, Secretary, Aide-de-Camn 
and servants might accompany him wher- 
ever sent. Lord Roberts promised compli- 
ance and General Cronje starts immediately 
lor Cape Town in charge of General Pretv- 
man. The prisoners numbering about 3000 
will be Sent to-day to the Modder River and 
thence in batches to Cape Town. 

Eebruary 28, 1900. 

NOTICE 

A large Auction Sale of about 40G 
frasilas of ivory will be held by the 
East Africa Protectorate Customs in 
Mombasa on Friday 9th March. 

The ivory is the property of the 
East Africa Protectorate and of 
private individuals. 

On application to the undersigned 
by order of the Chief of Customs and 
Shipping, free passages will be 
issued to bona ‘fide merchants by 
s.s. "Woodcock'’to Mombasa sailing 
on 7th Proximo. 

SUPPLEMENT 

SMITH MACKENZIE & Co. 

Omtuaky.—It is with deep regret that 
wo learn the news of Itev. W. King’s de- 
cease last Monday 20th inst. 

With deep regret we have to announce 
the death ot Mr. C. R. de Souza, which 
sad event occurred on the 10th instant at 
his residence in Goa. Tie leaves behind 
him a widow and four children, two boys 
and two girls, and a large circle of relations 
and friends to mourn his loss. 
The deceased was one of the most pro- 
minent merchants in Zanzibar among the 
Goanese community and he was always 
successful in his undertakings during his 
life. He was about 65 years of age at the 
time of his death, of which he has spent 
35 years in Zanzibar. In the year 1880 
H. H. the Sultan Said Bargash award- 
ed him a Diploma of Honour for the ser- 
vices ho had rendered to that Sultan and in 
1S92H. H. Said Alii also awarded him a 
gold Medal for the same reason. In 1895 
H. M. the King of Portugal honoured him 
with the title of Serrn da Estrella c da Ordcm 
Mill tar. The loss by the death of such a 
distinguished person, is deeply felt the by 
Goanese community. 

LATEST NEWS OF THE WAR. 

[REUTER] 

28f/i. February. 

Lord Roberts sends the following tele- 
gram from Paardebnrg dated 27th inst:— 
General Cronje and all his force capitula- 
ted unconditionally at daylight to-day and 
lie is now my prisoner in my Camp. The 
strength of his force will bo communicated 
later. 
1 hope Her Majesty’s Government will 
consider the event satisfactory occurring as 
it docs ou the anniversary of Mnjuba Hill. 
Lord Roberts in a later telegram states 
that the prisoners amount to 4000 of 
whom 1150 are Transvaulers. There are 47 
officers including the leading German’s 
Dewitz and Albrecht and a number of 
notable Boers. 
Four 17.05 centimetre Krupps, nine 
pounders and two maxims have been cap- 
tured. i 
A despatch from Lord Roberts dated 3.0 
a. m. tordny states that a most dashing 

THE LONDON GAZETTE. 
Of TUESn. t Y the 26th of DECEMBER ISOO, 

By the QUEEN. 

A PROCLAMATION. 

VICTORIA, R. 

Whereas a state of war exists between Us 
and the South African Republic, and also be- 
tween Us and the Orange Free State: 
And whereas it is therefore expedient and 
necessary to warn all Our subjects of their duties 
and obligations towards Us, Our Crown, and 
Government: , 
Now, tli’erefore, We do hereby warn all Our 
subjects not to enlist or engage themselves in the 
military service of the Government of either of 
the said Republics, or in any way to aid, abet, 
or assist either of the said Republics in the pro- 
secution of hostilities, and not to carry on any 
trade with, or supply any goods, wares, or mer- 
chandise to either of the said Republics, or to 
any person resident therein, or to supply' any- 
goods, wares, or merchandise to any person for 
transmission to either of the said Republics, or 
to any person resident therein, and not to carry 
any goods,, wares, or merchandise destined for 
either of the said Republics, or for any person 
resident therein. 
And We do hereby further warn all persons that 
whoever, in contravention of the law, shall com- 
mit any of the aforesaid acts, will be liable to such 
penalty as the law provides. 
Given at Our Court at IVindsor, this 
twenty-seventh day of December, in the 
year of our Lord one thousand eight 
hundred and ninety-nine, and in the 
sixty-third year of Our reign. 

GOD save the QUEEN. 
Wednesday, December 27.1399. 

Feb. 
Mar. 

Date. 
28 

h. 
o 

Morning. 

HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 
Afternoon, 
h. m. 
23 
10 
a3 
36 
18 
1 

m. 
57 
47 
32 
14 
58 
40 

A. Le. P.  AGNEW, 

Port [Officer 

BEKANNTMACHUiSTG. 
Am 14 Marz d. Js. Vomhttaars 9 
Uhr findet im hiesigen Hauptzollamte 
die oeffentliehe Versteigenma'von etwr 
136 Frassila Regierungselfenbein statt. 
Die in den Nordstationen und Zanzi- 
bar woknenden Kaufleuto konnen zur 
Herreise den am 11. Miirz bier 
eintrefienden G-ouvernements dampfer 
oder den am 12 Miirz hier eiutreffen- 
den D. O. A. L. Dampfer (Kuesten- 
lampfer) und zur Eueekreise den am 
20 Marz von hier abgolicnden I). O. 
A. L. Dampfer (Kuesten dampfer) 
benutzen. 

Dar-es-salaam, 14 Febrnar 1900. 

Hauptzollamt 

S. V 
OTTE. 

TO BE |LET. 

ground floor of *the German 

The 
Club. 

Apply to G. 0. care of the “Gazette.” 

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 
Weuk Ending, 2Gth Fkiiiumhy 1000. 
Temperature. 

Barometer, d.b. w.b. max. 
Sa.m. 8a.m. Sa.m. 2<thr 
90.1 
90.3 
89.0 
90.0 
91.7 
90.0 
92.0 

rain 
Ins. 
Tuesday Feb. 80 80.122 84.8 
0.00 
Wednesday „ 21 30.144 
84.8 
0.00 
Thursday ,, 22 30.128 
85.0 
0.00 
Friday * „ 23 30.118 
84.0 
0.00 
Saturday ,, 24 30.116 
83.7 
0.06 
Sunday 2n 30.096 
83.4 
0.00 
Monday 26 30.056 
83.3 
0.13 
Weekly means. 30.111 84.1 TS.l 1)0.0 81.4 0.18 

m:n. 
24hrs 
81.4 
82.9 
81.0 
81.5 
82.6 
81.3 
79.1 
lotal Rainfall for Jan. 1900. 4. 43 Inches 
T. OUSSEN, 
Acting Physician II. III. Agency. 

M 
78.1 
78.2 
77.9 
7S.7 
79.0 
78.0 

(Christ ChurchaCathedral 

English Services. 

Sundays.— 8-30. Holy Eucharist. 
9-30. Morning .Prayer. 
4-45. Evensong and Sermon 
Wednesdays.—b-45. Holy Eucharist 
Fridays.— 6-45. „ 
Daily.— 8. Morning Prayer. 

5.. Evensong. 

(Burette 

or Zanzibar and cast Africa- 

THE WAR IN SOUTH AFRICA. 

SEVERE FIGHTING IN NATAL 

CONTINUES. 

ENEMY’S MAIN POSITION 

CAPTURED. 
London, Isf March, 1900. 

_ The severe fighting is continuing on the 
Natal side. The Inniskillings lost heavily 
in a night attack on Sunday. An armistice 
was concluded on Sunday to bury the dead. 
General Buller telegraphs from his head- 
qurters at Hlangwane Plain on 28th ultimo, 
that General Barton’s Brigade on the eve- 
ning of 27th assaulted and carried the top 
of Pieter’s Hill thus to a certain extent 
turning the enemy’s left. The 4th and Ilth 
Brigades under the supreme command of 
Sir Charles Warren assailed the enemy’s 
main position, which was magnificently 
carried by the South Lancashire Regiment 
at sunset: 60 prisoners were taken and the 
enemy scattered in all direction. 

LADYSMITH RELIEVED. 

GENERAL BULLER IN LAD YSMITH. 

COLESBERG OCCUPIED. 

>6,000 MORE TROOPS FOR SOUTH 

AFRICA. 

2nd March. 

A despatch from General Buller dated 1st 
inst., states that Lord Dundouald, the Natal 
Carbineers and a composite regiment enter- 
ed Ladysmith last night. The country 
between me and Ladysmith is reported 
clear of the enemy. I am moving ou 
Nelthorpe. 
A despatch from Lord Roberts at Paarde- 
berg states that General Clements reports 
that he occupied Colesberg on 28th ultimo and 
received an enthusiastic welcome. He secur- 
ed some ammunition belonging to the rebels. 
General Buller cables from Nelthorpe ou 
Thursday at 5 p. m.— 
I have just returned from Ladysmith, ex- 
cept for ii small rearguard to the northward 
of Surprise Hill all the besiegers have re- 
tired in hot haste. The country southwards 

of the town is quite clear. The garrison 
require a little nursing before they will be 
fit to take the field. 
Lord Lansdowne informed Parliament 
K'oops were sailing in March and 
17,800 m April. The Army estimates shew 
a. total of £61,499,400 sterling and pro- 
vision for 430,000 men. 

SCOUTS IN TOUCH WITH THE 

ENEMY. 

MORE AUSTRALIAN MOUNTED 

TROOPS REQUIRED. 

LORD ROBERTS AND KITCHENER 

AT KIMBERLEY. 

MAJOR GENERAL BARTON 

WOUNDED. 

DEFEAT OF THE BOERS IN NATAL 

COMPLETE. 

3rd! March. 

The war correspondents at Paardeberg 
telegraph that our Scouts are in touch with 
the enemy to the eastwards, they are esti- 
mated to be 7000 strong. 
The Government has telegraphed to 
Australia requesting that Colony to provide 
2500 more Mounted troops, the Premiers are 
considering the request. 
Lord Roberts and Lord Kitchener arrived 
: fit Kimberley on 1st inst., and were to leave 
again yesterday. A party of Boers is active 
to the northwest of Kimberley destroying 
property and looting. A party is shelling 
Barldy West, 20 miles in a northwesterly 
direction from Kimberley. 
Major General Barton commanding the 
5th Brigade was wounded on 27th ultimo 
General Buller telegraphs from Lady- 
smith yesterday that the defeat of the Boers 
is more complete than he dared to antici- 
pate; the whole district is completely clear, 
Sii Michael Hicks—Beach introduces the 
Budget on Monday, a month earlier than 
usual. 
RECONNAISSANCE BY GENERAL 

GATACRE. 

BOERS RETURNING TO THE 

FREE STATE. 

General Gatacre on 2nd inst., made a re- 
connaissance in force towards Stormberg 

4th March. 

and shelled the Boer Laagers; the enemy 
replied with two guns, which have been 
located. 
The Oolesberg Boers have all returned to 
the Orange Free State. 

COL. BRABANT ENGAGES THE 

ENEMY. 

KRUGER AND STEYN MEET. 

PEACE DESIRED BY THE BOERS. 
5th March. 

Reuter’s Agent at Dordrecht telegraphs 
yesterday that Colonel Brabant’s Colonial 
Division is attacking the Boers in a strong 
position at Labuschagne’s Nek. ^ 
President Kruger is visiting the Free State- 
to consult with President Steyn, it is believ- 
ed regarding Peace proposals. 
A telegram from Dr. Leyds published in 
America states that the Boers want peace' 
but insist on their independence. 
BRABANT’S VICTORY. 

THE QUEEN ABANDONS HER VISIT 

TO BORDEGHERS. 
THE WAR BUDGET. 

6</f. March. 

Later News from Dordrecht states that 
Brabant’s Horse occupied the Boers’ posi- 
tion; a determined attempt to retake it was 
repulsed with heavy loss. The British loss 
was six men killed and 15 wounded. 
II. M. the Queen has abandoned her pro- 
jected visit to Bordeghers, deciding to re- 
main in England during the present junc- 
ture. 
The Budget to meet the war expenditure 
shews £60,000,000 under that heading. The 
Income Tax is increased by 4(7, in the £1., 
Beer by Ish., a barrel, Spirits 6<L, a galon, 
Tobacco 4cL, Cigars 6iL, Tea 2(/.,per pound, 
it extends to stamp duties ou transactions 
in stocks to produce sales; suspends the 
sinking fund and certain annuities next year, 
and raises the remaining £ 35,000,000 
required by loan. 

FRANCE. 

A sensation has been caused by the Duo 
d'Orleans practically admitting the autheu- 

5th March. 

rnmammm 

ticity of the letter he wrote to the Carica- 
turist Willette praising him for his Anti- 
English caricatures. The Duke on being 
interviewed explained that the caricatures 
were political, and he did not forget all the 
French Koyalists owed to England. 
150 persons have been injured by a con- 
flagration at some spirit warehouses at St. 
Onen. 
• t> persons have been killed by an explosion 
eif a TJioppa Packet Boat. 

THE WAR AND ITS LESSONS. 

HOW MANY BOERS ARE THERE? 

Following the general considerations 
dealt with under the above heading writes 
C. F. T. in the African Bemew, and ac- 
cepting the quoted conclusion of an emi- 
nent military authority that we have en- 
tered upon a wholly new era in military 
tactics, it is necessary to obtain a reliable 
estimate of the strength of the Boer Army 
before proceeding further. A vast amount 
of ingenious speculation has been wasted 
upon estimates of the numbers opposed to 
us. Such totals as 80,000 and even 100,000 
Boers are seriously put forward by prints 
having some claims to the attention of the 
public. The compilers seem to be incapable 
of dealing with the known facts which are 
at the disposal of everyone who has a real 
desire to arrive at the truth. "If a reverse 
takes place, account for it by doubling pre- 
vious estimates,” seems to be the rule follow- 
ed alike by military experts on this side and 
correspondents at the front. Thus, when 
the Ladysmith check took place a. promi- 
nent military writer immediately rushed up 
the totals of the commandoes engaged to 
35,000 men, though the estimate of the man 
on the spot—Sir George White—was 20 
000. And -so it has been over since. 
The Cape Times, which no doubt demon- 
strated by statistics any number of times 
before the war that there arc not more than 
35,000 burghers, now gravely cables that it 
has reliable estimates proving that there are 
87,000 men in the field against us. Is it 
necessary to repeat that it is far better for 
Englishmen to got at the truth, even at the 
expense of a little loss of self-esteem, than 
to blind ourselves with false couception of 
the strength and power of our foes ? 
Obviously a knowledge of the approxi- 
mate numerical strength of the Boers is a 
first essential in every endeavour to discover 
the lessons of the war. If the Boers num- 
>' 87,000, we have nothing to learn, for at 
time have we had so many men in our 
iiting line. With 2,000 Boors at Mafe- 
kmg, and about 10,000 south of the Orange 
River—assuming the Cape Times reliable— 
there are 75,000 divided between Modder 
River and Natal; and as we have only 40, 
000, or thereabouts, with Generals Buller 
and Methuen, the numerical disparity - thus 
shown is sufficient to explain our reverses. 
On the other hand, if there are ouly 40,000 
Boers all told, we are faced with* a very 
different situation, requiring a very diffe- 
rent explanation. For this reason it- may 
he of service if I discuss the question of the 
strength of the Boer Army in some detail. 

THE GAZETTE. 

March 7, 1900. 

CENSUS RETURNS. 

THE BOEK POPULATION ACCORDING TO 
Our guide in estimating the numbers of 
the Dutch in South Africa is the fact that 
all persons of Dutch extraction belong to 
the Dutch Reformed Churches. It is doubt- 
ful whether there are 100 Dutchmen in the 
whole of South Africa outside this religious 
classification, and the census figures under 
the head of religion may therefore be taken 
with absolute confidence. On April 5, 1891, 
an elaborate and detailed census of the popu- 
lation of the Capo Colony was taken, and, 
when completed, it was found that there 
were 114,980 males and 113,641 females 
who belonged to the Dutch Church—a total 
of 228,027 persons. It will not bo difficult, 
therefore, if we can find the approximate 
rate of natural increase in the Dutch 
population, to make a very close guess as 
the unmbers of the Dutch population in 
the Cape Colony. 
In the Grange Free State the last census 
was taken on March 31, 1890, audit was 
found there were 68,940 souls in the Dutch 
Church of a total population of 7-7,716 
whites. 
In British Bechuanaland the census taken 
in 189.1 gave 5,254 whites; and in Natal 
the enumeration of April 1891, gave a total 
of 44,415 whites. 

NUMBER OP TRANSVAAL BOERS. 

confirm each other broadly, and make it 
certain that the Boer population consisted 
of about 50,000 persons in 1890, when the 
Free State census was taken. There was 
no Dutch immigration to the Transvaal till 
after 1890, and not much then. Thus we 
get the following figures as the Dutch 
population of the Republics and the Cape 
Colony in 1890-91:— 

Cape Colony, 1891  228,627 
Orange Free State, 1890  68,940 
Transvaal, 1890 (estimated)  50,000 
Total — 817,567 

THE VOTING LISTS. 

Perhaps before going further I may add 
here evidence which confirms these Trans- 
vaal figores. In 1892 a hotly contested 
election for the position of President was 
fought out in the Transvaal. Every vote— 
and all males above sixteen are entitled to 
vote—was polled. (“It was openly stated 
at the time in the Transvaal that a consi- 
derable number of persons had voted more 
than once.”—C. Leonard’s statement. 
House of Commons Committee, 1896.) The 
results were: Kruger, 7,854; Joubert, 7,009; 
Kotze, 81; total, 14,944 votes. This num- 
ber included all burghers, English as well 
as Dutch. Further, according to a statement 
compiled by the Registrar of Deeds at Pre- 
toria, the number of farms held by burghers 
in the Transvaal in 1896 was 5,575. 

A very imperfect census was taken in 
the Transvaal in 1890, and the total white 
population was returned at 119,128 whites, 
of whom 59,334 were returned as born in 
the country, while the total white popula- 
tion was given at 119,128; the number of 
voters was catalogued at 12,438. I do not 
think that implicit reliance can be placed 
upon these figures, at all events ns regards 
the Uitlander population, for I can person- 
ally testify to the fact that the demands of 
the census-taker were treated generally as 
a joke, and'in very many eases the sche- 
dules were never called for. The figures must, 
therefore, bo supplemented from other 
sources. 
Oo March 12, 1877, before the annexa- 
tion, Sir T. Shepstono wrote to Lord Car- 
narvon:—“The white strength of the Trans- 
vaal consists at the outside of 8,000 men 
capable of bearing arms; of these, about 
1,000 live in towns and villages, and 350 
are the foreign and fluctuating population 
collected at the goldfields; the remaining 
6,650 are all farmers widely scattered in 
isolated homesteads over a surface equal to 
that of Great Britain and Ireland put 
together.” 
A petition sent to England in 1878, 
claimed by the Boers to be signed by near- 
ly the whole Dutch manhood of the Trans- 
vaal over twenty-one years of age, con- 
tained 6,591 names of an estimated total of 
8,00U—showing that the Boers endorsed 
Sbepstone’s estimate given above. 
In 1881 the Boer Government had an 
estimate of the population compiled, and 
the result, as given in our Blue-books 
was:—English, 5,030; Dutch, 38,230. Again, 
in 1886, the Dutch Churches took a census 
from their book's, and the total was 45,500 
souls. 
Now these Transvaal estimates, made at 
different times by different agencies, nil 

THE RATE OF INCREASE. 

Now what is the rate of increase of the 
Dutch population of South Africa ? It is 
usual to assume that the Dutch increase 
very rapidly, but, while this is true, the 
rate of mortality amongst the children is 
considerable. There is little difficulty, 
however, in ascertaining the rate of increase! 
The number of persons classed as belonging 
to the Dutch Church in 1875 was 166,148, 
and taking the same area (the Cape Colony 
extended its boundaries in the interval) 
the number in 1891 was 211,921 ( Cape 
Census, p. 41). . This gives us an increase 
of 2/ per cent, in 16 years. According to 
Mulhall, the population of Europe increas- 
ed 10 per cent, in ten years betiveen 1887 
and 1891, and the natural increase, exclud- 
ing immigration, of the white population 
of the L nited States fox* the same period 
was 18 per cent. If, therefore, I place the 
natural increase of the Dutch population of 
South Africa at 20 per cent, for the nine 
years between 1890 and 1899—or more than 
twice the European rate—I am conceding as 
much as any critic can reasonably demand. 
Then, repeating the table given above of 
the population of the two States most con- 
cerned, the following results are obtained:— 
Natural Total Dutch 
Popula- Increese Population 
tion in since, 20 at Present 
274,350 
82.728 
6U,000 
Total... 347,567 69,511 417,078 
We see, then, that the total Boer popul- 
ation of South Africa, excluding Natal but 
including Bechuanalaud, amounts to 420, 
000 souls, and it is only necessary to as- 
certain wbat proportion of this population 
is capable of bearing arms to arrive at the 
military strength of the Republics and of 
the Cape Colonjx [To he continued.) 

_ , 1890-91 per cent. 
Cape Colony (Census) 2;’S.G27 45,728 
Free State (Census) 68,940 13,788 
Transvaal (Estimate) 50,003 10,000 

March 7, 1900. 

CAVALRY AT THE CAPE. 

The report that the War Office lias decided 
not to send a Fourth Cavalry Brigade to the 
Cape, when coupled with the statement that 
I,ord Roberts considers the British cavalry too 
heavy for the work they are now called upon to 
■ lo, makes it desirable to revert onoe more to the 
question of the employment of Indian cavalry in 
.South Africa. We are unable to believe that 
Lord Rorberts has declined the services of ad 
ditional cavalry because he holds that he is 
already sufficiently strong in the mounted arm 
The more reasonable inference is that as he re- 
garcis British cavalry ns unsuitable for the 
veldt, he prefers to do without mounted reinforce- 
ments in pursuance of that view. The opinion 
(bus attributed to the Oommander-ia-Cliief at 
the Cape has already fouad expression in other 
authoritative quarters. It was predicted weeks 
ago that regiments like the Household Cavalry, 
the Royals, and Scots Greys, would not be 
mobile enough for the rought irregular work 
alloted to cavalry in the present campaign. 
So far as the cavalry are concerned, the chief 
honours of the war have been carried off up 
to the present by the lightly-equipped horsemen 
of the colony, who are' mounted upon small 
horses. Further reinforcements of cavalry of 
the same light type would probably he of the 
utmost value at the present juncture. We ven- 
ture to surmise that—political considerations 
apart—if Lord Roberts had been offered a 
Brigade of Indian Cavalry, he would have ac- 
cepled the offer with alacrity. Native lancers 
are ideal troops for the duties imposed upon 
cavalry in the present war. They are dexterous 
in hanlling their weapons, unequalled at scout- 
ing, inured to the trials of a hot climate, and 
above all, they are light cavalry in the best sense 
«*f the lerm. The hesitation evinced by the 
authorities to utilise a splendid force of the type 
. most needed in South Africa, is in keeping will! 
the rest of the blunders which have marked the 
conduct obthe war. The employment of [ndian 
troops has been forbidden from motives admitted- 
ly excellent; but the time has come when 
abstract principles should give way to considera- 
tions of expediency. The cavalry strenght of 
the army at the Cape will not suffice until the 
end of the war; Lord Roberts thinks British 
cavalry too heavy, and declines to have any 
more; and yet a large potential source of supply 
of trained men and horses is rejected in favour 
<>i a scratch force of yeomen, whose pluck and 
enthusiasm will have to make up for their 
ignorance of scouting work and of the weapon 
which will form their chief arm. Before the siege 
of Pretoria begins, the War Office will probably 
lie glad to avail itself of the services of Indian 
cavalry; mid it wonld be more politic to admit 
tne principle while a margin of opinion remains 
Already the Government has had to throw to" 
the winds one of the theories cherished when war 
was declared. The idea then was to refuse the 
assistance of the colonists in South Africa 
“ Hie war should be fought,” said these amiable 
dreamers, “by British soldiers alone. If we 
al'ow the colonists to take up arms against the 
Boors, the two races will never settle down 
peaceably when the strife is over. Let us there 
loro, rely upon British troops, so that no more 
se.'ds of mutual hatred may be sown amon«- the 
people who will have to live together afterwards ” 
Before the first shot was fired, this attitude was 
part'.ally abandoned; but even when Sir Redvers 
BiiUer landed in Natal, he was still loth to utilise 
1 > , n!al j",11 The very doctors and nurses 
who had been ejected from Johannesburg found 
Iheir offers of help slighted. All that is chan- 

THE GAZETTE. 

ged now. In Natal and at the Cape the men 
who have been eagerly volunteering for service 
at the front find their assistance gladly accepted. 
We hope and believe that before long there wifi 
be a similar reversion to common-sense views 
regarding the employment of Indian cavalry The 
opposition to native troops is said to emanate 
emeft) bom the colonists themselves, but we 
have been unable to find any traces of sent!, 
mental hostility to .the Indian soldiers of the 
Queen either in South African newspapers, or 
m tiie speeches of prominent colonial statesmen 
Nor do we anticipate that any real objection 
he feared from the colonists. They have seen 
their land invaded and homes violated, and arc 
not likely to hamper the success of Britisli arms 
by clinging to an unworthy prejudice. One of 
the other arguments urged against Indian caval- 
ry '= that the loss of British officers would be 
tun great. That objection, we venture to point 
out, must apply to every war in which Indian 
troops may engage. If the military authorities 
do not care to use native regiments against the 
Boers because they fear the British officers will 
be dangerously conspicuous, it is not unreason- 
able to ask what the official view will be if we 
ever find ourselves at war with Russia. For 
years no notice has been taken of the urgent, 
entreaties of competent advisers to increase' the 
proportion of British officers attached to native 
regiments Some day a terrible retribution may 
be exacted for this foolish parsimony, which is 
steadily-weakening the value of our Native Armv 
as an effective fighting force. But in the pre- 
sent mstnnee, the argument does not hold good 
for there arc plenty of men available to aug- 
ment the normal strength of officers attached to 
LrTfS 7,l?riS8
de' Other objections, 
more fundamental in their character, are ablv 
1
answered in the article by Sir Henry Howorth 
m the new number of the Nineteenth Centum 
Finally, it may be pointed out that opposition 
was originally anticipated, not from the colonists 
or from the Home Government, but from the 
Lovcrnment of Lidia It was thought possible 
that foi reasons which may well remain un- 
discussed, the Government of India would hav 
been reluctant to consent to pit native troops 
against the Boers. We believe we are correct in 
stating that the Government of India does not 
ook unfavourably, and never has looked un- 
favourably upon the proposal to send a force of 
native cavalry to South Africa. If that be the 
case, we trust that the scruples of the Home 
Government, or the War Office, or the colonist, 
will soon be overcome. A beginning might be 
made by despatching a single regiment. It may 
be confidently anticipated that any one of the 
crack regiments of native cavalry Would so far 
justify the honour thus conferred* upon it that a 
whole brigade would soon be asked for. 

Time* of India. 

Lie following little story is told by Mr. Fro- 
duck Treves, the well-known surgeon, in a letter 
he has sen to the Britieh IMical ./oarrnif, de- 
tailing the battle of Colenso : “On all sides 
t.iere is evidence that our soldiers behaved splen- 
didly on the field, and I can say that when 
Drought back wounded they were plucky- patient 
end uncomplaining. Their unselfishness was 
many times very marked. An orderly was bring- 
ing some water to a wounded man lying on the 
ground near me. He was shot through the ab 
domen, and he could hardly speak owing to the 
diyness of his mouth but he said, ‘Take it to my 
pal first ; he is worse hit than me.’ This generous 
andtedoFng wT"nS-lHlthi5pal ?0t tlu^h 

THE 

RIGHT man 
FRONT. 

FOR THE 
Major-General Sir Frederick Caiuunoton 
It is understood says South Africa that 
Major-General Sir Frederick Carrington'! 
apphcation for employment in South Africa 
has at length been granted by the authorities 
L U M, 0ftlcc and that this ffallanf, 
officer vy.H Shortly leave for the Cape 
accompanied by. Lieutenant Lawrence, of the 
South Males Borderers, as his aide-de-camp 
If the news be true—and at the moment ”f 
wilting it remains officially unconfirmed—it will 
cause considerable satisfaction in South Al'ricn 
where Sir Frederick Carrington is extremely 
populai. Our readers in that country will agree 
“ , ha‘ M-*]?!’ General Carring cn^ s 
emphatically the right man for the present 
campaign—and that he ought to hav! been 
appointed long since. Sir Frederick Carringten. 
won Ins laurels as a soldiers by his gallant dash 
and the splendid way in which he raised trained 
and used South African irregulars. He is ip 
1844nnTT0f-'ft’. I'aving,l,“n born August 23, 
1844. He is the son of Mr. J. Carrin-ton « 
Magistrate for Gloucestershire, and received his 
education at Cheltenham College. He entered 
the Army m 1864, ns an Ensign in the 24th 
Foot, now the South Wales Borderers, and was 
Instructor of Musketry to the regiment from 
August, 1870, to February, 1870. In 1875 he 
orgamsea and commanded the Mounted Infan- 
fr>*exPe|J‘tmn to the diamond fields, and 
‘r CalTlnSton s Horse at the annexation 
“ The 'eame year he “in 
the Kafir War in the Transkei, raised ami com- 
manded the I rentier Light Horse, and took part 
in the engagement at Quintana and subsequent 
operations in the Transkei and Perie Bush 
being mentioned in despatches. Again in 1874-9- 
Comm',7! ‘",t lCr0!’?r,,tion9 aS»mst Sekukuni as 
Commandant of Iransvanl Volunteer Force 
commanding the advance guard and left attack 
at the capture of Sekukuni’s strong-hold He 
was again mentioned in despatches received the 
brevets of Major and Lieutenant-Colonel (Nov- 
ember, 1878 and November, 1879), the Com 
pamonship of the Order of St. Michael and St. 
George, and the medal with clasp. From 
withS’ fM° t.o MnL 1885, he was Lployed 
vwth the Colonial forces at the Capo of Good 
Hope, commanding the Cape Mounted Rifle, at 
the siege of Mafeking by the Basutos, and the 
Colonial forces in Basutoland during the opera- 
foMarfhmi88L BaSUt°S f‘'°m N°Vembel’ 1M0' 
Sir Frederick Carrington, like other good 
soldiers, delights in being in the thick of Sthe 
F?!L -x the oamPa'Sn in Basutoland Sir 
Frederick was severely wounded at the <n-eat 
attack on the Wit Kopje, under General ClSe 
but this did not incapacitate him from active 
1884 85 S-thW B,eo^'*n“!a"d Expedition of 
1884-So Sir Frederick, with his long mousta- 
chios and artistic sombrero, is one of the most 
pietiiresque figures associated with the Colonial 
foioes. He is a man of firm decision and frank 
uncon-ventionahty, and his long experience of 
'Tfa? SL0Ultl now s(and hi” in excel! 
I nt stead. In the Warren Expedition he com- 
manded the 2nd Mounted Rifles, which he raised 
to a high state of perfection, as he gathered 
mind him many officers, non-commissioned 
officers, and men who had served under him 
In, ld84’ [w, reached the substantive 
lank of colonel and from 1885 to 1888, and 
Rgm,n flon? I8'J3’ '™s employed with the 
Bechuanaland Police Force, and in 1893-4 on 
special service in South Africa. He became 
.Major-General in the latter yser, having hem 
created a K.C. M. G. in 1887. He was military 

Mai-cE 7, 1900. 

The writers in the Bond papers, says a Cape 
Town correspondent, are continually exhortb* 
Great Britain to seek peace, on the theory of 
offering terms acceptable to the Boers, on the 
condition that the latter retire within their own 
borders. The great mass of public opinion in 
England however, stands immovable behind the 
Imperial Cabinet in their resolve to end finally 
the Republican attacks, secret and overt, upoil 
British suppremacy in South Africa. 

( Mms. Jean Wauchofe, widow of the late 
General Wauchope, has sent the following letter 
to the Press.— 
Statements have, 1 understand, been made 
that the last letter which I received from my 
husband, General Wauchope, contained criticism 
on Lord Methuen’s conduct, and that my Inis-- 
hand expressed a feeling that he was being sent 
to his death. I wish to deny these stataments ' 
most emphatically ; there is not a shadow of 
truth in them. My husband would never have 
criticised his chief, even in private letters to his 
wife, and nothing would have hurt him more 
than to feel that anyone else would do so. My hus- 
band s Inst mention to me of Lord Methuen was 
contained in a letter dated November 29,1899,.' 
Orange River, and was as follow.^— 

“I expect Methuen will halt on the Modder 
for some days defore pushing forward. He has 
had a hard time of it, and must he a real gallant 
soul to shove along as he does.” 

Referring to the Colenso reverse, the correspon- 
dent of the Daily Chronicle says:—The attack to ' 
the onlooker was purely a frontal attack by three 
bodies of troops separated by no great distance. 
The face of the enemy was attacked point blank 
by each brigade—whether on the nose, right or 
left cheek seemed a detail. There was no question 
of giving the Boer a reglnr round-arm, swinging 
blow underone of his ear. The face, and face only, 
was the object of the military pugilist. Over all 
this, however, the bravery of the British soldier 
and Colonial volunteer stands in supreme gran- 
deur. It mattered not to Tommy and his leader- 
whether the plan was good, had, or indifferent, he 
fought on with that stolid indifference and 
S-'lenin bravery that is so characteristic of the 
British soldier alone. His orders and the enemy 
were his only thoughts. Ho never winced or 
wavered for a second as the rain of hail beat 
into the ranks and reduced the number of his 
friends. He marched on with a glaring eye on 
the spitting hills ahead and grasped his rifle a 
little tighter maybe, as he hoped for revenge 
and victory. We see a good deal of Tommy 
Atkins in the street—not always the best side of 
him—and we often think very lightly of him and 
his, but I dont think that anybody could have 
seen him fighting on December 15 "on the banks 
of the Tugela without having the very deepest 
respect for him. 

THE GAZETTE. 

adviser t,o the Government at the Cape in 1893V 
having been sent out to South Africa at the very 
shortest notice.—in fact,, it lias frequently been 
stated that his campaigning kit consisted of the 
Clothes he stood in and a new saddle—and lost 
^ear he was appointed to command the Infantry 
Brigade at Gibraltar. 

WAR JOTTINGS. 

• Over a thousand men have now joined the 
Pioneer Corps. 

The Cape Town Danish Society have unani- 
“ously decided not to send papers and books 
to the Danish wounded or prisoners of war, 
stating that they have no sympathy with people 
of any nationality fighting on behalf of the Boers. 
It appears that all the. bridges on the Natal 
Railway ana Laing’s Nek tunnel and the brid- 
ges on the Free State line have been undermined 
so that they can he destroyed at a-moment’s 
notice by the Boers when a retreat becomes ne- 
cessary. 

Sir Charles Hunter, Bart , has left for 

Cape Town in the Scot. 

Some Boer prisoners at Simonstown have peti- 

tioned to he sent to St. Helena. 

A 28 rounder gun has been manufactured 

in the Do Beers workshops at Kimberley. 

Advices from Pretoria, ria Brussels, state 
that typhoid fever is making terrible ravages 
there. 

Major Lord Edmund Talbot, 11 Husars, 
has been appointed aide-de-camp to General 
French. 

The gold output in Rhodesia for December 
was 5289 ozs., ah increase of 599 ozs. over 
November. 

Mn. L. .1. Davies writes to contradict the re- 
port— which has appeared in several of our con- 
temporaries—of the death of his brother, Major 
W. Karri Davies of the Imperial Light Horse 
who was slightly wounded at Ladysmith, and is 
reported to be doing well. 

I he Times correspondent at Lonrenno Marques 
says that Pretoria is very much perturbed. “It 
is even hinted,” he says, “that Boers are about 
to sue for peace. . . . That they are bitter- 
ly disappointed at the apparent apathy of the 
Continental Powers is an undoubted fact.” 

Mn. Scott Alexandep., an energetic nitland- 
er from the Rand, who enlisted most of the 
mpn for the various Colonial mounted corps 
raised in Durban, has had his services recogni- 
sed in the gratifying form of an Imperial com- 
mission ns Chief Recruiting Officer for Natal 
with the rank of Captain. 

The mortality from enteric fever and dysen- 
tery in Ladysmith recently has averaged about 
ten daily. 

The military authorities at Capo Town are 
moving in the matter of forming a Town Guard 
at Elizabeth. 

A despatch from Johannesburg states that 
a recent issue of the Standard and Diggers' 
News was csnfiscated by the Transvaal authori- 
ties. 

On the occasion of the anniversary of Isandhl- 
wanu the monument to the British soldiers who 
fell in I he Zulu war was decorated with ever- 
greens and flowers. 

Sm John Robinson, in an address to the 
electors of Durban the other day, said that at a 
tilde when the claims of public duty were para- 
mount over personal considerations, he placed his 
services unreservedly at the disposal of the best 
interests of Natal, of South Africa, and of the 
Empire. 

Tub total value of the imports in Natal 
during the year 1S1I9 is, says a cable, returned at 
£3,3o9„it5!)—an increase of £33.000 over those 
of the previous year. The exports are valued at 
£1,200,000, or an increase of nearly £250,000. 
The Customs revenue was £130,000' and showed 
a falling oil of £30,000. 

Universal regret was expressed in Cape 
Town at the death of the Duke of Teclc, and flags 
were half-masted on the Government, municipal, 
and also on some private buildings. 

Is -connection with the AVer Fund at the 
Mansion House, (he Queen 1ms expressed her 
gratification that so largo a sum lias been raised 
in collections in compliance with Her Maiestv’s 
letter. J 

Dudeks have been issued in Cape Town for 
.using of two additional regiments of South 
M. a-an Light Horse. They will be designated 
-Roberts Horse’ and “Kitchener’s Horse” res- 
pectively. 

I hi: greatest satisfaction has been given at 
Durban by the General Order issued by Sir 
Jtedvers Duller, enjoining-his troops to disregard 
the use of the white flag unless the enemy at the 
Same time lay down their arms. 

-Mb. OiMMuERUAijf lias wived to Lord Beau- 
champ, the Governor of Now South Wales ex- 
pressing his gratification at the public spirit 
shown by the tmshmeuiu comino forward to form 
a corps and accepting their services. 

“Why should they punish Kruger ? ” asked 
Dr. Conan Doyle at the Authors’ Club dinner 
the other evening, “That man had solved a 
question which every statesman had found inso- 
luble. He would build a monument the size of 
St. Paul’s—putting him under it !—and he 
would write across it . ‘To the memory of the 
man who federated the British Empire.’ ” 

A Centrai. News wire from Durban states:— 
The doctors of Sir James Sivewright’s Boer 
ambulance, who hare arrived from Delagoa Bay, 
apparently cherish the hope that now that their 
material have been contemptuously refused by 
President Kruger, they will be accepted by the 
Imperial Army authorities. Solar, however, they 
have received no encouragement for this hope. " 

A i Ei.kgram from South Africa has been re- 
:>t Hiimbl".'? announcing the death of 
hleld-Cornet Helinbold, who was severely 
wounded in December outside Kimberley. Ficld- 
Coi net Ilelinbold was of German descent and 
stui,led at the Military Academy at Munich. He 
is described as having been a promissing author, 
and was writing a history of the present War 
the book being ready For publication. 

THE BOER LOSSES. 

The following figures (says Reuter’s corres- 
pondent at Rensburg) have been carefully com- 
piled, and many items have been verified by 
persons who have lately arrived from the Re- 
publics. They are certainly rather under than 
over estimated. Up to the present the enemy’s 
loss in killed and wounded have been:—Mafeking 
500; Kimberley, 300; Belmont, 100: Graspan’ 
250 Modder River, 500; Magersfnntein, 700; 
Kurunian. 101: Douglas, 74: against General 
French, 300; against General Gatacre 100: 
Glencoe. 300: Elandsiaagte, 600: Ladysmith 
2900; sundry, 400. Total, il,425. 

13 

14. 
15. 
17 

IS. 

March 7, 1900. 

THE GAZETTE. 

Last night Jan. 26th says Smith Afi 'ica, the I 
Lord Mayor's War Relief Fund amounted to I 
£634,000. 

.shillings. 

The Refugee Fund totalled £173,000 
The Daily Telegraph has collected 2,206,660 
The Scotsman 213,909, and 
The Glasgow Herald 112,171 shillings. 
The Datly Mail A.M.B. Fund had exceeded] 

£08,000. 

DIARY OF THE WAR 

Nov. 1. 

3, 
4. 

10. 
15. 

22. 

pan. 

from De Aar. 

Mooi River camp. 

First batch of British and Boer 
wounded reached Cape Town. 
Ladysmith isolated. 
K. S. W. Lancers arrived at Cape 
Town. 
Stormberg Camp broken up. 
Boers defeated at Ladysmith. 
Colenso evacuated. 
Bremersdorp burnt by the Boers. 
First detachment Army Corps arri- 
ved at Cape Town. 
Fighting at Belmont, north of 
Orange River Station. 
Armoured train wrecked in Ratal. 
Severe British losses. 
Burghersdorp occupied by the 
Boers. 
General Gatacre at Naauwpoort. 
Large British force sent forward 
Mooi River camp shelled by Boers 
Boers made ineffective attack on 
Lord Methuen’s victory at Belmont 
Successful sortie from Kimberley. 
General Methuen’s victory at Gras- 
Sir ReiversBuller arrived in Natal. 
Stormberg occupied by the Boers. 
Methuen victorious at Modder River 
Boer laager captured near Kim- 
Canadian troops landed at Cape 
Dordrecht occupied by the Boers. 
Boers occupied Steynsburg. 
Transport Ismore ashore near Cape 
Arundel occupied by British troops. 
Boers attacked Methuen’s line of 
communication. 
Sortie from Ladysmith. Boer guns 
captured. 
General Methuen suffered heavy 
loss at Magersfonlcin. 
General Wauchope killed at Ma 
ersfontein. 
General Gatacre suffered heav 
reverse at Stormberg. 
General Barton bombarded Colenso. 
Successful skirmish near Kaauw- 
poort. 
Skirmish from Orange River. 
Reconnaissance towards Magers 
fontein 
Severe repulse of Sir Redvers Buller 
at Tugela. 
Lord Roberts appointed to com- 
mand in South Africa. 
All Reserves called out. 
V olunteers called for the front. 
Late General Wauchope buried at 
Lord Roberts left for the Cape. 
Ilans Wagner seized by the British 

berley. 
Town, 

Matjesfontein. 

Town. 

26. 
28. 

30. 
Dec 2. 

10. 

2li. 
30. 
Jan. I. 

3. 

4. 
6. 

Mafeking repulsed. 
seized off Delagoa Bay. 
near Dordrecht. 
by Colonial troops. 

British attack on Boer fort 
The Bundesrath, with contraband, 
Successful British reconnaissance 
British victory at Sunny side, chiefly 
Surrender of Kuruman. 
Boers occupied Molteno. 
Boers placed cannon at Springfield. 
Boers surrounded at Colesberg. 
Engagement at Molteno. 
Boers retired from Molteno. 
Boer attack in force on Ladysmith 
repulsed. 
Company of 1st Suffolk Regiment 
captured at Colesberg. 
10. Lord Roberts and Kitchener arrived 
at Cape Town. 
Sir Charles Warren crossed the 
13. 
Tugela. 
K. S. W. Lancers caught in am 
47. 
bush at Rensburg. 
Lord Dundonald captured kopje on 
18. 
north side of Tugela. 
20. 
Slrong Boer position taken near 
Acton Homes. 
21. 
Whole British force on Tugela 
engaged. 
23. 
General Warren took Spion Kop 
at night. 

examination for Holy Orders, was made 
Deacon and returned at once to his post. 
Only last Autumn he was advanced to the 
Priesthood, and made Principal of the Col- 
lege, with an equipment of experience 
vigour, and single-hearted devotion to his’ 
task, which raised the highest hopes for 
lus success in managing that important 
school. ’ 
A keen and somewhat'unsparing critic 
of others, his criticism did not spare him- 
self. Every upward step in position and 
responsibility visibly sobered and deepened 
his views and character. His unlooked- 
for removal on the very threshold of a new 
stage in his career will recall to some the 
bitter sense of almost irremediable loss 
with which they saw the waves of Nyasa 
close over Bishop Maples, before he had set 
foot in his diocese as its head. 
P. S, A melancholy interest already attached to the 
fine new school room at Kiungani. The idea was due 
to Mr. King, the Idesign and erection mainly to Mr 
Chambers. Both have passed awav within a few' 
months of the laying of the first stone. “ 

Mb. W. B. Cbacknall, Judge of H. B. 
M. High Court, and Mr. Mansfield, the 
American Consul, visited Prison Island 
last week and spent three days there enjoy- 
ing its salubrious climate. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 
TO THE EDITOR “ZANZIBAR GAZETTE. 

Sib, 

It was a pleasant surprise for the Eu- 
opean residents of Pemba, when the s.s. 
“Kilwa” went up the other day with nine 
passengers on board. While the boat was 
anchored at Tundaua on her return voyage 
from Weti, the passengers were entertained 
at dinner by Mr. H. Lister. 

Mn. W. J. Robertson returned from 
Pemba by the “Kilwa” on Sunday, after 
inspecting the forest where he found sever- 
al rubber vines. He started work at Verani 
clearing the undergrouth and encouragino- 
these vines, and also digging holes where 
the forest was thin with the intention of 
planting tree rubber plant in the coming 
monsoon. Mr. Robertson also built a row 
of huts for a score or so of men that he 
engaged to work at Yerani. We believe 
there is every prospect of a rubber growing 
industry being started in Pemba. 

The death in London of the Revd. Wal- 
ter King, Principal of the Universities’ 
Mission College at Kiungani, at the early 
age of 31, is a matter of deep concern to 
all who have at heart the cause of religion 
and education in East Africa,—the more so 
as it occurs at the precise moment, when a 
career of singular usefulness and promise 
seemed about to bear its ripest fruit. 
Educated at the. Cathedral School of St 
Paul’s London, and trained by Sir John 
Stamer and Dr. Martin, Walter King was 
the leading treble of its famous choir at 
a time when it was pronounced by no less 
an authority than Gounod to be unsurpass ■ 
ed in Europe. He joined the Mission in 
1885, when only 16 years of age, and with 
the exception of 11 years’ residence at St. 
Agustine’s College, Canterbury and one 
or two short holidays, devoted himself con- 
tinuously with all the force of a sympa- 
thetic nature, at once capable energetic and 
persevering, to the best interests of the 
African boys gathered from all parts of the 
mainland for education at Kiungani. Apart 
from the deeper influences of character, 
Maior Cooper from Uganda arrived by 
they could not but profit by the work of 
s. “Reichstag” to-day and proceeded to 
one who combined rare musical taste 
and training with athletic powers which! ivJ-n. jju.wdas n. jj. m. s Vice-Gonsul at 
Mr. Dundas H. B. M.’s Vice-Consul at 
some may still remember in the sports on j Dar-es-Salaam also returned from Tanga by 
Mnazi Mmoia smrifi \'pnre no-n O w/I ! f-.hp* hnn.f. 
Mnazi [Mmoja some years ago, and a 
the same boat. 
thorough knowledge of the Swahili langu- 
age; and they responded to it with a res- 
pect and affection which only increased as 
time went on. 
On the death ot the A en. Archdeacon 
Jones Batemam. King, who was in 
England, and had already obtained 

We regret to hear that in Mr. Duudas’ 
absence, Mrs. Dundas has been seriously ill. 
Reassuring news, however, comes this morn- 
ing, and a telegram announcing the birth of a 
daughter, and we arc glad to add, “mother 
and child doing well.” 

The Times of India announces that 
Lieutenant R, H. G. Wilson, 1st Lincoln- 
shire Regiment, is appointed to the Uganda 
Rifles. 

who combined 

Dar-es- Salaam. 

Thu s. s. “ India ” due to leave Aden 
yesterday with the English mail will 
come to Zanzibar direct, land her mails and 
proceed at. once to Elidini to land Mombasa 
mails. 

Captain (I. A. S. Cape, late of the 
Uganda Eifles arrived here per s.s. "Safari” 
from Mombasa on his way to South Africa. 
Amongst the passengers who arrived by 
the last French mail were; Mr. D. Charles 
Lehuin, Mr. E. P. Marsland and Mr. Harold 
Stenbridge who proceed to Mombasa to-day 
to join tho firm of Boustead Eidley and Co., 
and Mr. Percy E. Johnstone who goes to 
Seycheles. 

A great and distinguished hunter, Mr. 
Wm. Cooper, has been staying in Zanzibar 
a few days on his way to the mainland. Mr. 
Cooper has travelled all over the world and 
devoted a great deal of his time to hunting 
all kinds of game. His great desire now is, 
to shoot lions, and is very hopeful of bag- 
ging a good few: hitherto he has only shot 
one king of the forest. Mr. Cooper is also a 
keen naturalist, as we understand he posses- 
ses tho largest collection of beetles in Eng- 
land undone of the largest collections of but- 
terflies. Mr. Cooper leaves to-day for Mom- 
basa whence he intends to travel by train to 
Nairobi, then strike out into the jungles. 
Mail and Shipping Intelligence. 
The M. M. s. s. “Saghalien” Captain Bouis 
arrived from South on 26th Feb., and sailed 
for Europe on 27th Feb. with mails and 
the following passengers:— 
Mctul, 
Mardon, 
Hobley 
Shaw 
Traill, 
Booth, 
Youn-j-. 

31r. G. H. Sir Lloyd Wm. Mathews 
15. J. Macdonald Dr, G. A. 
Mr Andrade, ,, A. L. 
Mr\ Lyne, Mr. R. N. 
n P. Rcilloy „ E. 
.i Simpson Rev.- T. C. 
.. R. Yoimg, Mrs. A 2 infants 
The M. M. s. s. “Irrnouaddy,” Captain 
Bevilnqun, arrived here from Europe on the 
'28th Feb., with mails and the following 
passengers :— 
Cooper, 
Loy, 
Grioss, 
Wood, 
Cote, 
Mackey, 
Prior, 
Hotherley, 
Davis. 

Lannovillc, Mrs. E. 
Colsoy, Miss. 
Stanbrigc, Mr. IT. 
Kev. and Mrs. Lehain „ D. C. 
m Marslaml „ E, P. 
» Johnstone ., P. D. 
.. Mursberger ,, 
Mrs. Bouzas „ 
M iss. A. Baron S, Hersenger 

Mr. W. 

I he S. S. ‘ Scfari” arrived from Bombay 

on the 2nd and left for Tanga. 

The S. S. 

India. 

“Afghan” left on the 2nd for 

Tho S. S. “Kilwa” returned from Pemba 

on Sunday the -Uh. 

Barque “Netherby” arrived on the Ofb 
from Cardiff, she brought 2079 tons of coals 
for S. M. & Co. 

TO BE LET. 

House in Sbamba situated next to 

the Parsee Shamba, apply to 

VALEE NATOO. 

TliJi (iAZETTB. 

THE BOMBAY GAZETTE. 
THE HEDJAZ UNSAFE. 

Eeheuap.y 3rd, 1900. 

i The British Consular authorities at Jed- 
dah report a general state of lawlessness 
! there, the roads being unsafe and infested 
! by bauds of armed Bedouins who attack cara- 
vuns, murdering and plundering every one 
with whom they come in contact. Intend- 
ing pilgrims to the Hedjaz are consequent- 
ly warned by the Government of India of 
the dangers they expose themselves to this 
year. 

LATEST NEWS. 

[REUTER] 

1th March. 

Eeuter's Agent at Dordrecht telegraphs 
on 5th inst., that Colonel Brabant scored a 
Complete victory, the Boers are in full re- 
treat and are being pursued. 
Beuter publishes news from Sterktroom 
dated 5th, that General Gataere entered 
Stormherg unopposed. 
Reuter’s Agent at Osfontein telegraphing 
on 3rd inst., states that General French's 
artillery shelled the right of the Boers po- 
sition to the north of the River. 
The House of Commons lias voted the 
Budget resolutions relating to the addition- 
ail duties to be levied. 
The Boers evacuated Stormberg on the 
4th inst. 
The Australian Premiers have telegraphed 
to Mr. Chamberlain that they will heartily 
co-operate, and an Imperial Bushmen’s 
corps is expected to be ready in a few weeks. 
There are 800 cases of typhoid in Lady- 
smith. • 
The House of Commons has approved the 
raising of a loan by 161 to 2b votes. 
The fourth death from Plague has oocur- 
ed in Sydney. 

BEKANNTMACHUNG. 
In das bei diesem Konsulat g'e- 
fuehrte Prokiirenregister sind fuer die 
oifene Haudelsgesellschaft Hansing- 
& Co., Hauptniederlassung Hamburiiv 
Zvveigniedorlassungen Zanzibar. Dar- 
es-Salaam, Kilwa und Mombasa, fpl- 
gende Eintragungen erfolgt:— 
zu laufende No. 14, Prokurist: Kauf- 
mann Felix Dieckmann in Mombassa 
ist eingetragen am 5 Maerz 1900. 

"Die Prokura ist erlosehen am 5 
Maerz 1900.” 

iYiurcn i, lauu. 

NOTICE. 

The undersigned, the well-known 
Tobacconist of Zanzibar, doing busi- 
ness under bis own name and'Arm of 

N. MELLAS <fc Co., 

begs to inform his numerous constitu- 
ents, of his intention to retire from 
business, as the new enterprise under-, 
taken by him in Egypt, will require his' 
undivided attention." 

Be therefore takes this opportunity, 
to tender his best thanks to the gene- 
ral. public, for the kindness and con- 
fidence, so long continued to him, and 
! to assure them, that he shall always 
'look back_ with pleasure to the amic- 
able ralations which have existed bet- 
ween his firm and the public of Zanzi- 
bar. 

In conclusion, he regrets that he 
will not bo in a position, to engage in 
any new transaction after 8th April 
1900; and to facilitate the winding* up 
of bis affairs, be respectfully requests 
bis kind patrons to settle all the out- 
standing accounts, before the above 
date. 

Zanzibar 5th March 1900. 

N. MELLAS. 

TO LET. 

One-storied bouse, situated 
on the 
Main Street next to Zanzibar 
Stores, 
equally suitable for a shop, office, or a 
dwelling place, now occupied by 
Messrs. N. Mellas & Co. For full 
particulars apply to the undersigned. 

' N. MELLAS. 

RC-Hil RWUMWl a/aiiHftrfl 

«iiH? yTj 

HiTiitrt 'JtltHcl. 

Wt ^ ^ iff '-H ^ . 

'H’MG “viw d? ^ ctio 

’d’li fed! cWl Hlc-tsci^ qsfleiirt 
■tmid iXc-u 
3-=Jt Wr-i3Ri Rid g ^ yqc-u 
^U14R1 RU BlvrlRl syRHi 

Unter laufende No. 15 ist am 5 Maerz 
JOU CtUi rj JYJ.il VIZ, j 
1900 eingetragen, da.-o uc^u xvaujuiaun 
dem Kaufmann itl-H urir dlcudi 
Alfred Fruehlingin Mombasa Prokura slc*1 
filer die Zweigniederlassung Mombassa 
mit Wirkung vom 5 Maerz 1900 ab er- 
tlieilt worden ist. 

RiHq! § dh 
cue 3JJ yqaw. Ifeoo dlidl R!^,. 

- * Si'll «0dld ^flRrt 4RI 

Zanzibar, den 5 Maerz 1900. 

Per Kaiserlich Deutsche Kousul. I 
J. V, j 

BOESSLER. IcyVui: 

w. B. CBACKNALL, 

Judge. 

'•'ASiij. 'Jl 
i!o ajj >(i5ai ibac. 

Sor Zanzibar ®nd iast Africa- 

6a3cttc. 

Boer positions from the direction of Heln- 
makaar (37 miles W. by N. of Ladysmith). 
Sir George White has arrived at Pieter- 
mantzberg. 
n.,wlVie00nd edition of yesterday's Times 
publishes news from Ladysmith that 
It is reported the Boers are entrenching 
N NF3 of T Tr S?gar] Ber= Mdel 
W.1N.E. of Ladysmith) and are guarding the 
western passes of the Drakensberg moun-. 
Various reports are current pointing to 
some action in the Transvaal in favour of 
peace whereby the republics are to retain 
their independence; nothing definite has 
fr'om^1 red and k’jt ‘s expected there- 
Town11^*11 Brabanfc has occuPied James 
Lord Kitchener is on the Vitoria West 
Road organizing an advance of troops 
West^6 rebelll0us Dl8triot3 of Griqualand 
Sir Geo White met with a splendid re- 
ception at Maritzberg, the crowd unharness- 
ed the horses from his carriage and dragged 
it to Government House. The General is, 
weak and feverish. 
H. M. the Queen has returned to Wiud- 
to^fLThTc^.'2'000 guardsmen abont 
BOERS AGAIN SUFFER DEFEAT. 
12th March. 

  THE MARCH TO BLOEMFONTEIN. 

THE TRANSVAAL WAR. 

MORE BOERS IN REBELLION. 

THE QUEEN’S COMING VISIT TO 

IRELAND. 

SHAMROCK SPRIG TO BE WORN 

BY THE IRISH REGIMENTS. 

LORD ROBERTS’ FURTHER 

SUCCESSES. 
London, Sth March, 1900. 

THE BRITISH ADVANCE. 

§th March. 

It is reported that the British occupied 
Bugkersdorp unopposed on Wednesdav 
evening. J 
Lord Roberts telegraphs from Poplar 
Grove yesterday that General Kelly-Kenny’s 
division of infantry, two cavalry brigades 
with horse artillery marched to-day 10 miles 
eastward. 
General Gataere is occupying Bughers- 
dorp. General Clements has occupied 
Norval s Pont but the bridge across the 
Orange R'ver has been blown up on 6th 
inst. The enemy are holding the north 
bank but not in great strength. 

RETREAT OF THE BOERS. 

10th March. 

ON THE SCENE OF BATTLE. 

PRESIDENTS STEYN AND KRUGER 

Reuter s agent at Cape Town telegraphs 
on_ the 6th instant that the districts of 
Prieska about 95 miles N. W. of De Aar and 
Kenhardt have proclaimed themselves as 
part of the Free State Territory, Nearly 
Reuter s agent at Achterang telegraphs 
the whole of the Dutch population in these 
on 8th instant that General Clements has 
districts is in rebellion. The movement is 
moved his main camp six miles to the 
spreading to Victoria West, Fraserburg aud 
River at Vanzyle’s siding. The Boers have 
districts. The rebels are estimated at 3,000. 
completely withdrawn to the Free State 
The Queen has decided to visit Ireland 
Reuter publishes news from Cape Town 
in April and stay at the Vice Regal Lodge. 
that troops have bean forwarded to the dis- 
In an Army Order issued last night, the 
affected districts in the northwest. | 
Queen has ordered that henceforth on St 
A telegram from Lord 
Colonel Braadwood’s Brigade in advancing 
--  Roberts dated Vi —. ^gaue m aavancmg 
Patrick's day all ranks of the Irish Regi- 
n -Dloemfonf.ipn on     
Popla 
. Grove yesterday, states that Presi- “n 0I? Saturday, unexpectedly 
ments may wear as a distinction a sprig 
dents Steyn and Kruger were present at the , . th® e5fmy m a strong position on 
of shamrock in their head-dress to comme- 
fight on 7th inst. aud did their utmnsi, Ly koPJe” t.---™—•- - - - - 
..is, at .Briedfontien. General Kelly- 
^i16 -^tb lnst' aud <3il'3 tkeir utmost to 
morate their gallantry during the recent 
Kenny’s Division arrived and after sharp 
rally the Boers but the rout was complete, 
belt tl os. 
fighting the Cavalry turned the position 
they declaring their inability to withstand 
Lord Roberts telegraphs from Osfontein the British artillery and such a formidable 
The Boers were dislodged from the centre 
under date of 7th instant that he attacked cavalry force. toimidable 
ol a kopje but tenaciously hung on to the 
the enemy occupying a position four miles 
rest. Fourty Boer prisoners were taken 
BRITISH MOVEMENTS IN NATAL. 
to the north and eleven south of the 
and a number found dead. The British 
Modder River. A Cavalry division suc- 
force is moving forward to-day. 
BOERS ENTRENCHING AT THF 
ceeded in turning the left flank of the enemy 
Lord Roberts telegraphs from Driefontien 
and they are in full retreat to the north- 
on 11th instant that the enemy gave consi- 
ward aud eastward closely pursued 
by 
f®™bl® fiouMe throughout the march on 
cavalry, horse, artillery, and mounted in- 
lUth, but owing to the admirable conduct of 
fantry where Tucker’s and Colvile’s divi- 
the troops they were unable to prevent us 
sions of the Guards Brigade are movin'* 
reaching our destination. The brunt of the 
across the River at Poplar’s Drift. 
fightmg fell on Kelly-Kenny’s Division, the 
Welsh and the Essex Regiments dislodging 
. fatal’ telegram from Lord Roberts last 
night states that it was a very successful 
the Boers from two strong positions at the 
day, they completely routed the enemv 
point ct the bayonet. The enemy suffered 
who are in full retreat. 
heavily having 102 dead and twenty pri- 
soners on the field. 1 

I LORD KITCHENERS MOVEMENTS. 
i ARRIVAL OF SIR G. WHITE AT 

l?mnrpTwfr0ra Pret°!;a state that 
Iz,Ul)u Lntish troops are threatening the 

PEACE AND INDEPENDENCE. 

MARITZBEEG. 

11th March. 

PASSES. 

