! | 

•20 

THE GAZETTE 

February 28, 1911. 

Societa Nazionale di Servizi Marittimi Linea llla. 

ITALIAN ROYAL IS/IAIL SERVICE. 

, -t TT„„TT fnnv wppirc, from Genoa to Zanzibar calling at Naples, 
fssawa. Aden, Benadir P„&, Kismay„, 

Cl 

Mombasa, and vice versa. . ,. . 

-d ovd anrl pnrcrn booked for all the above destinations as well as (by tranship- 
% “■ “■ B“Sea-North 

and South America, Bombay and the Far East Foits. 

Wine or beer at meals free. n ^ , ... 
Special rates granted to Missionaries, Oihcials and their families. 

The s s “ Po ” from Europe is due to arrive at Zanzibar on the 19th March and will 

be leaving again for Europe on the 22nd March. 

For further information apply to 

elegraphic Address: WORMS, Zanzibar. 

WORMS & C.E 

Acting Agents. 

The Highest Standard of 

'iv73'^ 

DANISH BUTTER is 

V '* hn.'. 

•^STell Tasting - 
•jgnre - ■ ■ 
Ecanomical in use. 

S6 

Don’t delay, 
but order 
at once. 

59 

TWO HANDS 

Braad. 

Special prices aracE samples Oia application. 

r 

Mantifacttarers— 

i A/S THe UNITED DANISH BUTTER. PRESERVING- Co.,Etd. 
! (Copeg^Biager^j,; OerimayK.. 

CORRESPONDENCE. 

Advertisements and notices for pub- j 
lioation shbuld reach the GAZETTE Office j 
not later than SATURDAY in each week. . 
Otherwise they cannot be accepted for \ 
the current number. 

. USHER’S WHISKY 

QUALITY GUARANTEE 

“THE BMHD” FOR EAST AFRICA. 

[Printed and Published for tbc Proprietors at the “GAZETTE” Press, Zanzibar 

THE GAZETTE 

FOR ZANZIBAR. 

VOL. XX. No. 997] 

TUESDAY, MARCH 7, 1911. 

[PRICE 12 CENTS. 

Harters fclegrams. 

London, 27th February, 3-35 a. m. 

28th February. 

Washington. Mr. Taft has decided to summon 
an extraordinary session to deal with the Cana- 
dian reciprocity bill on 4th April, ihe De- 
mocrats are arranging to utilize it to secure the 
partial lowering of general tariffs especially on 
, articles affecting the cost of living. 

Constitutional Conference. The Times 
and Daily Telegraph publish articles pleading 
for the publication of the points on which the 
constitutional conference agreed or nearly agreed 
and the differences on which it collapsed. They 
argue that the reasons for secrecy have now 
passed away and that such publication would 
immensely assist the country’s thought, lend 
security in the coming debates and promote a 
peaceful and enduring solution. 

Measles has broken out at Portsmouth on hoard 
H.M.S. “Essex” and the Boyal Yatch “Osborne”. 
Bombay. The Kronprinz has sailed for Egypt. 
Before leaving, he said he was deeply impressed 
by the scenery and monuments of India and was 
most appreciative of the hospitality which had 
been extended to him. He paid a high tribute 
to the British administrative system by means of 
which a few Englishmen were controlling millions 
of natives. 

Melbourne. An Anglican deputation has 
urged the Government to remove certain preva- 
lent abuses in connection with the aboriginals of 
North-West Australia, making sensational allega- 
tions as regards the treatment of the women by 
Asiatic pearl fishers and. others. The Govern- 
ment has replied in a sympathetic manner and 
announced that officials are being appointed to 
protect the natives. 

Cricket. South Africa has scored 408 runs 
and New South Wales 255 for the loss of 5 
wickets. 

Paris. The French Cabinet has resigned. 
Melbourne. The Commonwealth Govern- 
ment has issued a memorandum saying that for 
several months it has been an open secret that 
representatives of the American Meat Trust have 
been visiting Australia with the ostensible object 
of extending its operations. The Government has 
f f determined to take immediate and drastic action 
to discourage and, if necessary, to prohibit the 
Trust’s operations in Australia. The Minister 
of Customs is consulting the Attorney-General 
with the view of bringing the full force of 
.the present law into operation, and if necessary, 

obtaining further legislation. The action of the 
Government will extend to Trust operations in- 
Australia whether conducted directly or indirect- 
ly and will not permit any repetition in Australia 
of the scandals and merciless methods which 
characterize monopolies in other parts of the 
world. 

Football. The following is the result of the 
draw for the fourth round of the English Cup, 
to be played on 11th March. 

Chelsea v. Swindon 
West Ham v. Blackburn 
Newcastle v. Derby 
Bradford City v. Burnley. 

Constitutional Conference. The question 
of the publication of the points on which the 
constitutional conference failed or agreed, has been 
brought up in Parliament. Mr. Asquith inform- 
ed the Hon. Harry Lawson that all members of 
the conference were agreed that there should be 
no public disclosure of the proceedings and that 
he did not possess the power, even if he had the 
disposition, which he had not, to consider the 
matter. 

House of Commons. During the second read- 
ing in Parliament of the Veto bill, Mr. Austen 
Chamberlain put forward an amendment urging 
the reconstruction of the House of Lords and said 
that if the bill was the Government’s last word, 
it could not pass. He appealed for a compromise 
in the spirit of the conference. 

Mr. Cathcart Wason suggested that the subsidy 
of £9,000 per annum paid for the conveyance of 
mails to Mombasa might be more profitably 
employed in running a special steamer which 
could carry the coast mails and develop local 
resources. Colonel Seely replied that the scheme 
had been examined and found unreliable. 

Last week’s discussion has rather exhausted 
the interest in the debate. The House was list- 
less and in no wise full, and Air. Austen Chamber- 
lain said that all ministerial arguments only 
proved that the House of Lords ought to be 
reformed so as to be more fitted for its task. The 
two years’ delay provided for in the hill was use- 
less and moreover, once the bill was passed, 
nothing could prevent the House of Commons 
from abandoning the system established, because 
the House of Commons would then be supreme. 

Mr. Haldane said that Air. Austen Chamber- 
lain had spoken as if the bill was the whole 
policy of the Government. The bill was the only 
means of making any step forward towards the 
strongly favoured reform of the House of Lords. 
As security against the repeal of the hill the 
Government pledged themselves not to treat this 
as a final settlement hut as a stepping stone to 
reforms connected with Ireland, elections, and 

THE gazette 

March V, 1911. 

wTIwru The French crisis excites mucin 
mteresu -— 11 _   
man at the 
JsssAt??* ssr,*,mi 
the disappearance ^downfall to per- 
helm. M.Briandattubutes his to 
sonal hostility dst ^rbrnes and ambushes, 
continue m office amidst mtri.ue^ ^ tolemnt 
while his policy o 11 distorted. The 
secularism is imsunder weakness and. 
Temps bewails the displayed by 
indifference to the falliiw into the hands 
politicians, and fea^powei talh the 
of revolutionary Soc ahsts. iu. ^ d 
zs ml nt Algeria, has xesigneu, ucu 
Governor-Grencrai 01 » t Abates is. 
laring that the d °“u^ce
US interests of 
calculated to serious y p ] Germany and 

Mi. J

a“eS

T

nt sJfol.d) has sold to an American 
kmson Ltd. ot baum , . an inYention 
Syndicate for a million steill“0 kh „ The 

tTeUedistrihution and establishment of a Second 
Chamber more in accordance with populai 
The alternative which the Opposition offered it as 
a referendum which would break up the A ' 
of representative Government whmh won h^t 
far more momentous change. The Gove 
would be false to its mission and duty unless 
they enlisted, if necessary, the uhole 
forces for the passing of the bill as law. 

London, 28th February, 4 a.m. 

Isf March. 

Boxing. At the National Sporting Club, Mau 
Wells beat Freddie Welsh in twenty rounds o 
points for the Lightweight Championship ofGma 
Britain, and Lord Lonsdale’s belt and a puise o 
jg 900 The fight was very keen throu hoi • 
Wells started in hurricane fashion and estabhshe 
a lead which Welsh, who was the stronger at the 
pnd was unable to recover. 

’Work of Art. The Standard states tha < 

. American has offered £ 100,000 for Rembrandts 
■picture “The Mill”, now m the possession of Lout 
Lansdowne and that it will probably be accepted. 
Ottawa. In the House of Commons, Mr. Mac 
lean has introduced a resolution suggesting that 
the Government should adopt w toto the Asqm^ 
Veto bill and apply it to the Senate, bn 
Laurier made a non-committal repiy ^rt ins 
expected that the Government will take up the 
£"jS“i”tseS°MM0SS. n. ***<*«. 
Veto debate is evidenced by the fact that at one 
time yesterday evening there were not foity 
Members present. Mr. Eonald Shay, who addies- 
sed the House, was the only Conservative piesem 
The interest of politicians is concentrated upon 
the attitude of the Conservatives towards the 
reform of the House of Lords. There weic a 
series of informal conferences Ox the Unionist 
leaders vesterdy evening with regard to the quest- 
ion but apparently the nature of the reform s 
not vet decided upon. Much depends on a meet- 
ing of the Unionist Members to-ciay, to winch 
the “Front-benchers” have not been mvited. 

The Morning Post and Daily Mail state that 
there are two opinions among the Unionists, the 
advanced demanding a purely elective Cham bel- 
aud the moderates a partial hereditary one. ihe 
Standard points out that it is impossible for Lou 
Landsdowne to advocate an elective Chamber 
•which would involve the abolition of the Loyal 
prerogative to create peers. The Liberal papers 
are exultant and term the state ol affairs as the 
Tory civil war. The Daily Ncn-s anticipates 
that to-day’s meeting will result in a disruption 
comparable with the Liberal split of 1SSG. 

Constitutional Coneekence. The J.uncs\ii 
a Parliamentary leading article, says that ^tne 
secrecy concerning the conference proceeding 
was reluctantly concurred to by the Unionist 
leaders and that the plea of the Government v as 
that the method of holding the conference would 
thus be kept alive for future use. The Times 
remarks that should the Government persist in 
their refusal to employ this method, then their 
good faith in using the argument would lie open 
to injurious suspicion. 

Ceicket. The Australian’s innings closed for 
408, of which Macartney made 12G, while Emery- 
scored 80 not out. South Africa has made 2:12 
runs for the loss of 2 wickets out of which Faulk- 
ner has made 102 and Nourse 112, both not out. 
Obituary. Colonel Barrington Foote, late 
A. D. C. to the Marquis of liipon when Governor 
General of India. 

C0S TA* -o- 

nt spa enduring terrible sufferings. Ihe hoc was. 
constantly diminishing, masses breaking oft, bear- 
ino- 40 to 60 people, while many w_ere drowned in- 
the interstices before their comrades ey es. 

Paris. M. Fallieres has summoned Senator 
Monis to form a Cabinet. „ , -n u u 
Wales has beaten France at Rugby football 
by 15 points to nil. The game was a strenuous 
one up to half time, no score being made by 
eitheAide. Wales was represented by a strong. 

teH0USE OE COMMONS. The Veto debate was- 
continued by an apathetic House. The Rt Ho . 
Alfred Lyttleton said that both parties should 
place their cards on the table to enable the 
country to see where the real disagreement arose. 
The Unionists asserted that the verdict giving a 
majority at the election was as small as was that 
in favour of a change in the powers and cmrsgu- 
tion of the House of Lords, hut that it the Go 
eminent refused to meet them in any way they 
would oppose it with a resistance which he 
believed would be indomitable because it was 

^ A petition has been presented to Mr. Asquith, 
signed extensively by Members of the House ot 
Commons of various parties, stating that the time 
has arrived to associate the Dominions in a more 
permanent manner with the conduct of Imperial 
affairs, if possible by means of a representative 
council of an advisory character. 

An official account of the meeting, mentioned 
this morning, states that there was a general 
discussion with regard to the reform of the Second 
Chamber, showing throughout the utmost loyalty 
and confidence in the party leaders. Mr. Aeland 
Hood attended and made a statement with r®y®‘ 
rence to the lines of Lord Lansdowne s bilk 
The meeting cordially accepted the same and 
adjourned. . . , 
Mr. Lyttleton having referred to the joint 
sessions provided by the South African constitu- 
tion, Lord Crewe said that it was essentail to 
remember that the first Chamber consisted of 1- 
members and the second of 40 and that it w as 

March 7,1911. 

THE GAZETTE 

3 

•possible that a bill rejected by the Second Cham- 
>be'r would become law within a year. Referring 
to the immediate consequences of the bill, he said 
that the Opposition ensured that every elector 
should know that it included Home Rule and that 
the electors had decided to enable the Govern- 
ment to do with Ireland the same as had been 
■ done with South Africa. 

London, 1st March, 3-30 a. m. 

2nd March. 

Paris. M. Delcasse has accepted the post of 
Minister of Marine and M. Berteaux Minister of 
War. M. Monis has offered the Ministership of 
Foreign Affairs to M. Ribot or M. Poincarre. It 
is announced that M. Pichon has refused to 
remain. 

Ottawa. During the reciprocity debate m the 
House of Commons, a sensation w-as caused by- 
Mr. Sifton, an ex-Minister, who announced the 
secession of the Liberals on account of tire reci- 
procity bill which he denounced as a monumental 
mistake putting Canada’s head in a noose and 
marking the abandonment of Canada s proud 
position’as the rising hope of the Empire. 

Melbourne. Mr. Fisher has opened a cam- 
paign iu support of the proposed changes in the 
•constitution which will be decided during the 
coining session. His referendum dwelt on the 
need for a domocratic constitution and compared 
the Australian with South African constitution. 
The effect of the latter was seen in the power of 
a central Parliament which w-as essential to deal 
with monopolies and to nationalize them where 
necessary. 

Rembrandt’s “The Mill”. Lord Lansdowne 
has offered the nation the refusal of this picture, 
he himself contributing To,000. 

Sydney It is stated that England will chal- 

lenge for the Davis’ Lawn Tennis Cup. 

Unionist Meeting. It is understood that the 
advanced Conservatives at yesterday’s meeting 
were satisfied by the assurance that Lord Lans- 
downe’s bill would be bold and sweeping and that 
the hereditary peers would be in the minority 
while the others would be elected on a democratic 
system. The papers state that the scheme is a 
more democratic version of Lord Curzon’s and 
reduces the number of the Plouse of Lords to 300. 
The Earl of Hel borne, who was the guest of the 
1900 Club, dwelt on the advantages of the refe- 
rendum as compared with the Government s 
usurpation of the people’s power. 

Teheran. In consequence of fresh robberies 
on the Bushire-Isphau road, the British Minister 
has drawn the attention of the Persian Foreign 
Minister to the situation. 

M. Monis represents that M. Briand s policy 
was accentuated somewhat in a radical sense. 
He hopes to bring in the advanced groups which 
withdrew their support from M. Briand. Lc 
Matin, declares that M. Monis in inviting M. 
Delcasse said that he desired to be m complete 
agreement with him on foreign policy. _ The 
Cabinet is almost completed and meets in the 
Chamber on Monday. 

Cricket. New South Wales beat South Africa 
by 44. The South Africans’ second innings closed 
for 442 of which Faulkner scored 144 and Nourse 
160. 
■ The Army. An Army order provides for the 
organisation of an air battalion numbering 190 in 
all ranks to take effect on 1st April. ■ It defines 
the duties which include the training of men in 
handlin'? kites, balloons and aeroplanes. The 
personnel at headquarters in addition to the usual 

administrative duties will be available to form a 
nucleus from which the battalions can obtain 
additional officers and men when required. The 
officers will be selected from applicants in the 
regular service on the active list and they must 
be recommended by their Commanding Officers. 
Football. The semi-final for the Scottish. 
Cup will be Celtic v. Aberdeen and Hamilton or 
Motherwell v. Dundee and will be played on 11th 
instant. 

Coronation. Their Majesties the King ancl 
Queen paid a visit to Westminster Abbey where 
the Duke of Norfolk, the Archbishop of Canter- 
bury and other State Officials explained the plans 
for the Coronation. 

Admiral Curzon-Howe has had a serious stroke. 
India. The Indian Budget of 1910/11 has 
realised a surplus of £3,489,300 mainly arising 
from the opium revenue, this being due to the 
unprecedented prices at the Calcutta sales. The 
Budget for 1911/12 estimates the surplus at 
£743,800. 

New Zealand. At Wellington, Mr. Ward 
and Mr. Finlay were entertained on leaving for 
the conferences. All the speeches were highly 
imperialistic and were received with the greatest 
enthusiasm. 

House op Commons. At question time Mr. 
Asquith said that the Government had given full 
consideration to Mr. Justice Grantham’s speech 
which was referred to on 8th February. He stated 
they observed with satisfaction that the speech 
was universally and emphatically condemned and 
he hoped that this unanimous vote of censure 
would prevent a recurrence, consequently he did 
not propose to invite Parliament to take the 
extreme step of advising His Majesty to remove 
Mr. Justice Grantham. 

Peshawar. Sir Rees Keppel with 340 troops 
and two guns has surrounded 30 raiders and the 
famous outlaw Hakim Khan in a cave near 
Abazai. They refused to surrender and the 
troops therefore bombarded them, killing Hakim 
Khan and twenty-two others. The remainder 
were captured. 

Suffragettes. Mr. Winston Churchill has 
informed Mr. Snowden that he has carefully con- 
sidered the Suffragette memorandum of 22nd 
February and that the proper course was to take 
action in the police courts, where charges should 
be made immediately. There was no truth that 
the police had instructions to terrorise women as 
they were advised to act with restraint. He 
denied the charges of indecency against plain 
clothes officers but said that many of the crowd 
were capable of gross conduct and for the presence 
of these the women themselves were responsible. 

Paris. It is announced that the Cabinet will 
follow the secularising policy and be opposed to 
all persecution. They will appeal to the Railway- 
Companies on bahalf of dismissed employees and 
retain the bill for the suppression of sabotage but 
delete that portion which denies to the men the 
right to strike. 

M. Poincarre has declined to accept office and 
M. Cruppi has accepted the Ministership for 
Foreign Affairs. 

Veto Bill. Mr. Runciman, who was the chief 
speaker in the Veto debate, repeated his previous 
arguments. 

Obituary. Vice Admiral the Hon. Sir 

Assheton Gore Curzon-Howe, K. C. B. 

Calcutta. Sir Fleetwood VTlson, K. C. B., in 
presenting the Budget to the Council, mentioned 
that a million sterling would be required for the 
Coronation Durbar. 

THE gazette 

March 7 1911. 

March 7, 1911. THE GAZETTE  

Fkance. The French Cabinet has been comple e 
with the exception of the portfolios of Commei 
and Justice. The composition is largely Fad , 
and Socialist. Half the number voted against 
M. Briand on the division which caused 
resignation. It is officially announced that 
Cabinet is determined to maintain the exis i D 
alliances and ententes. 

Germany. The German Conservative pap > 
Post and Kreuz Zeitung, strongly criticize me 
inclusion of M. Delcasse; the former declaring 
that it is a warning to Germans to be ready, m 
the Liberal Vossische Zeitung regards it ^lL 
indifference, declaring that his methods arc bo 
longer applicable. , 

Washington. It is authoritatively stated tuat 
if the Canadian reciprocity bill becomes law and 
other Powers seek similar pirivileges on impoi'S 
under the “most favoured nation” clause, me 
State Department will be obliged to decline. 

London, 2nd March, 5-50 a. m. 

3rd March. 

Sydney. The Earl of Dudley, Governor-Gene- 
ral of Australia retires in July and will be suc- 
ceeded by Lord Denman. 

House of Commons. Mr. Snowden on belialt 
of the Labourites denounced the idea of the 
House of Lords reform and said that any coni- 
promise in favour thereof would damn the Libeial 
party beyond the hope of resurrection. 

Cape Town. In the Assembly,_ Mr. Smuts 
emphasized the necessity7 of organising a South 
African defence scheme before participating m 
any Imperial plan. The Government intended 
to fortify Table Bay and he hoped that within a 
■year it would be as strong as any place in the 
world. The importance of Durban as a coaling 
station was even more momentous and a scheme 
with regard to it. He 
was  being formulated 
advocated’a system of annual training similar to 
Lord Kitchener’s Australian scheme and stated 
that a military college was necessary. 

It appears impossible for the Government to 
proceed to the Committee stage with the Veto 
bill which would save weeks, owing to financial 
business occupying the House until 2Sth instant. 
A noteworthy 'point made by Mr. Buncimnn in 
3iis speech yesterday evening was that the Gov- 
ernment can never agree on a scheme for the 
reform of the House of Lords which extinguishes 
the hereditary right of peers because this would 
destroy7 the prerogative of the Crov/n which is 
the only means of settling deadlocks between the 
two Houses. 

Holland. An Englishman named Tmslay, 
the representative of the Canadian Uranium 
Steamship Company, has been expelled by the 
Government for attempting to land a number of 
returning .Russian emigrants who were rejected 
in America and whom the German authorities 
prohibited from passing through Germany. These 
sixty unfortunate people are being bandied about 
from one country to another, none being willing 
to admit them. 

Washington. The Senate by 4G votes to 40 
has upheld the election of Mr. Lorimer, who 
was charged with corruption in connection with 
the election. 

Bagdad Railway. Renter is informed that 
the negotiations between Turkey and Germany 
with regard to.the Bagdad Railway are making 
good progress and are expected to conclude in a 
few days, on which direct negotiations will be 
opened between Turkey and Great Britain with 
reference to the Bagciad-Persian Gulf section of 

the svstem. The Ottoman Minister of Finance 
tain—t that a German Company W.U 
build the railway as far as Bagdad. 

H M The King at Buckingham Palace receiv- 
ed the addresses of the House of Convocation 
from the Archbishop of Canterbury and York. 
In replying, His Majesty referred to his visits to- 
parts of the United Kingdom and said I hope 
“these visits and our journey later to India may 
“serve as a testimony of my affectionate regard 
“for all my peoples near aud far, and that they 
“mav associate them all with the venerable and 
“livin" "lories of the British monarchy under 
“whose shelter freedom has dwelt so long with 
“law and peace”. 1 
Fb\nce The French Cabinet, has been com- 
pleted with M. Monis as Premier, M. Cruppi as 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, M. Herteaux, Munster 
of War, M. Delcasse, Minister of Marine, M. Cail- 
laux. Minister of Finance and M. Messing, Minis- 
ter for the Colonies. _ _ , 

Melbourne. The Minister for Defence in 
toastin" Admiral Henderson at a farewell luncheon 
requested him on behalf of the Government to 
say to England that Australia was willing to bear 
her part in the defence of the Umpire. Admiral 
Henderson in replying said that the keynote of 
his report was contained in the sentence “Any 
“action which attacked the sea power of England 
“is inimical to Australia and the whole Empire. 

Veto Bill. There is a revival of interest at 
the concluding stage of the \cto bill and the 
House was crowded. Mr. Balfour said that though 
he held that a democratic form of Government 
was the only form under which it was possible to 
live peaceably and carry out effectively7 national 
and Imperial work, it was folly to say that they 
will have nothing to do with heredity on principle 
because it was impossible to avoid the Second 
Chamber rivalling the first. 'Ihe party of rapid 
change ought to have a constitutional check to 
ensure that the changes were approved by the 
people. This he said was more necessary in the 
case of the Liberals than the Conservatives. It 
was of the utmost importance to have a Second 
Chamber strong enough to carry out functions and 
as the Government wanted a Second Chamber he 
supposed they wanted a real and not merely an 
ornamental and useless one. The Government, 
he stated, could not be trusted to amend the cons- 
titution responsibly and impartially, because they 
were not independent but coerced by the Irish,, 
otherwise the bill would never have appeared in 
its present shape. He said that the results would 
probably be disastrous to the country and cer- 
tainly descreditable to yourselves. You are doing 
what you have no right to do, using to transfer- 
by relatively few votes and fundamentally change 
the constitution. You are going to carry out by 
coercion what you have imposed on the country 
by fraud. At this there was a prolonged uproar 
and cries of “Withdraw”, but the Speaker ruled 
that there was no objection to the word fraud as 
applied to a party and not an individual. The 
uproar was renewed for some time but the Speaker- 
adhered to his ruling. Mr. Balfour refused to 
withdraw anything he had said and concluded in 
a few words. 

Mr. Asquith said that they now knew that the 
Tory anxiety as regards the reform of the House 
of Lords was to make it, however composed,, 
stronger against the chosen representatives of the 
people. Mr. Balfour had charged them with fraud 
by advocating a scheme which they did not 
believe to be just in order to obtain the support of 
‘-1'" Rationalists. The answer was that the bill 
the 

■Originated by Sir H. Campbell Bannerman s 
motion in 1907 when the Liberals were independ- 
ent of all parties. They had not deviated a hair’s 
breadth from the lines then laid down which 
were without any reference to party convenience. 
Referring to the hereditary principle, he said that 
it was because they were enslaved and fettered 
in the House of Commons that they meant to 
cany the bill through and make it law, and that 
constitutional checks were abundantly provided 
in the Bill. They must presume that the re- 
presentative House was the true mouthpiece of 
the people and therefore no further check was 
required. The preamble distinctly stated that 
the reconstruction should be postponed until the 
operative clauses came into force, therefore in 
assenting to the bill, the country endorsed the 
course they were pursuing. His view of the 
desirability of a Second Chamber was not changed 
in the least hut the House of Commons must 
predominate in legislation. The only functions 
■ of the Second Chamber must be consultation and 
revision. The Opposition asked them to hold 
their hands till a vast and crude formless change 
in the constitution had been thought out, but he 
said that the Government’s first and paramount 
duty was to pass this bill and make it law. 

The bill passed the second reading by 36S votes 
to 2'l3. Mr. Austen Chamberlain’s amendment 
was rejected by 365 votes to 244. 

King George in a message to the fleet says: 
“The news of the death of the Commander-in- 
“Chief grieves me deeply and I know that all 
“those in the Portsmouth command andthrough- 
“out the Service*-mourn his loss as sincerely as 
“I do.” , L . 
Calcutta. A Bengali youth, in the centre of 
the city, threw a dangerous bomb wrapped in 
jute into the motor car of Mr. Cowley, a Public 
Works Engineer. It did not explode and it is 
believed it was intended for Mr. Denham of the 
Criminal Investigation Department and who uses 
a similar car. The youth was captured. 

Mr. Harcourt, replying to Mr. Murray, said that 
he refrained from appointing a permanent Under 
Secretary for the Colonies pending the meeting 
of the Imperial Conference as it would be dis- 
courteous to take any steps which would seem to 
prejudice the result of the discussion. Mr. Hop- 
wood will occupy the post honorarily during the 
Conference. 

Elections. The petitions against the Glou- 
cester and St. Pancras elections have been with- 
drawn. 

London, 3rd March, 4 a. m. 

■ith March. 

House of Lords. The House of Lords has 
passed the first reading of the referendum to the 
Veto bill introduced by Lord Balfour of Burleigh, 
who emphasized the fact that he alone Avas 
responsible for it. 

Ottawa. During the reciprocity debate in the 
House of Commons a German, representing 
Welland, announced his secession from Liberal- 
ism, because he was unable to support the Gov- 
ernment’s policy. 

Sydney. The Commonwealth Government is 
appointing a British Officer to organise an exten- 
sive wireless telegraphic system as recommended 
by Admiral Henderson. 

Obituary7. The Rt. Plon. Robert Spence 

Watson, P. C. 
. The engagement is announced of Lord George 
•Cholmondeley to Clara Taylor who was divorced 
as Mrs. Stirling in March, 1909. 

Sydney. In the fifth test match, Australia 
has scored 281 for the loss of 3 wickets of which 
Macartney made 137. 

The French Cabinet. The new Ministry 
is far from homogenous, consisting of eight Radi- 
cal Socialists, four Radicals, three moderate 
Republicans and one Republican Socialist. The 
Dcbat considers that M. Monis is landed in a 
Radical bog and that the army and finance affairs 
are in the hands of demagogues. 

Obituary. Elliot Stock, the publisher. 
Sir Edward Tennant, Mr. Asquith’s brother-in- 
law, has been appointed High Commissioner to the 
General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. 

Calcutta. Yesterday’s bomb thrower is named 
Mukherji. He is respectably connected and con- 
fesses that he threw the bomb into the wrong 
car. 

Wellington. The Premier, on being inter- 
viewed with regard to the rumoured operations of 
the American Meat Trust in New Zealand, said 
that the Government was fully alive to the posi- 
tion and if necessary would oppose the Trust even 
to the extent of nationalising the refrigerating 
works throughout the Dominion. 

Billiards. Gray, playing Nelson at Southamp- 
ton, has made a break of 1,576 of which 1,500 
were off the red ball. 

Lord Charles Beresford has been adopted as the 
Unionist candidate for the Rectorship of Glasgow 
University. 

hoth March . 

London, 4th March, 3-55 a. m. 

Melbourne. Admiral Henderson has prepared 
two schemes for the naval defence of the East 
and West coasts at a total expenditure of three 
million sterling. 

Lord Rosebery has been elected Chairman of 
the Parliamentary Committee for the reception 
of the delegates of the Dominion Parliaments. 

Mr. Birrell, speaking at the Oxford Union, said 
that finance was the crux of Home Rule and that 
the Government was engaged on an actuarial 
enquiry. He believed that the new scheme was 
practicable and the hill would resemble that of 
1893. The Union passed a resolution in favour 
of Home Rule by 385 votes to 304. 

St. Petersburg. The Tsar has issued a 
rescript stating that he intends to complete the 
work of Alexander II by transforming the pea- 
sants into landowners. 

The Hague. The Second Chamber has 
passed a bill prohibiting bookmakers and totali- 
sators at race meetings and preventing English 
bookmakers from transacting business in Hol- 
land. . . . 

Mukden. There is a growing anti-foreign 
a"itation in Mukden and proclamations have 
been made which urge the extermination of 
Europeans. A telegram from Vladivostock states 
that a Boxer rising may be expected. 

Lisbon A fire has occurred at a spinnery m 
Santo Thyrso. The building collapsed and ten 
people were killed. 

Plague. A case of plague has occurred at 
Odessa. „ , „r o i •, 
The P. & O. S. N. Co’s. R. M. S. “Dongola 
from Bombay has been quarantined at Suez 
owing to a suspected case of plague. 

Cricket. Australia’s first innings closed for 
364 while South Africa only scored 160. Follow- 
ing’ on, the South Africans have made 33 for the, 
loss of one wicket. 

Johannesburg. Two further attacks have 
been made by natives on white women in the 

THE gazette 

March 7, 1911. 

memorials to the Tsar. Free meals were given 
to the noor. The Tsar and the Empresses attend- 
ed service at the Cathedral in St. Petersburg. 

Washington. Mr. Taft has appointed two 
additional Members on the Tariff Board both 
bein^ democrats. The Board has up to the pre- 
sent consisted of three republicans. 

France. M. Calmette, writing in the Figraro 
declares that M. Delcasse’s retirement in 190o 
was not due to Germany but to a disagreement 
with his colleagues over theMorrocan policy which 
threatened to bring on a war with Germany. 

The Vatican is apprehensive that Uie new 
French Cohinet means severe persecution for the 
Roman Church. 

Complaints in the German newspapers that 
the French are recruiting for-the Foreign Legion 
have evoked angry replies from 1 ranee. 

Lieut. Col. Sir William Carington announces 
on behalf of the King that it is His Majesty’s 
intention to entertain a hundred thousand London 
children at the Crystal Palace on 30th June and 
that a strong committee has been formed for this 
purpose. min 

Berlin. M. Gambon has notified Germany 
that M. Cruppi has assumed the office of Minister 
for Foreign Affairs, and has received the reply 
that M. Cruppi could count on the friendly spirit 
of Germany and that it was hoped and desired 
that the same good relations would continue as 
they had done with M. Pichon. 

Shanghai. The famine is growing more intense 
in Anhui and Kiangsu and is more severe than 
that of 1900. Relief is only touching a small 
part of the country and there is a large exodus of 
people southwards, a band of 2,000 appearing 
close to Shanghai. The alleged Boxerism is 
officially unknown and probably emanates from 
the recent activities of the so called Yellow Sky 
sect, who are now discredited owing to their 
failure to cure the plague as they professed they 
were able. 

OFFICIAL 

ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

NOTICE. 

The undermentioned lots of Cloves and 
Cloves-Stems were sold on the Custom 
House premises this 6th day of March, 
19H. 
Lot 'Description "Weight frasilas Eatc per Iras 
No. 
1 
2 
o 
1 
2 
3 
1 

p. 
6 
0 
0 
6 
6 
6 
0 
W. B. SWINERD, 

Rs. 
15 
15 
16 
16 
16 
16 
4 

250 
250 
200 
200 
200 
125 
325 

Zanzibar Cloves 

Pemba Cloves 

Stems 

Chief of Customs- 

6 

Transvaal. In one case the woman shot her 
Sant dead and in the other the husband 
grappled with and overpowered the native. 

"Washington, The Senate has passed the 
Panama fortification appropriation and also aji 
appropriation for the construction of two JJiea 
noughts and some smaller craft. 

Paris. M- Cruppi has paid visits to ti 

various Ambassadors and announced his desire to 
maintain and develop in a peaceful manner 
Prance’s alliances and friendships and to exte 
the good relations existing between the j. owen, 
more particularly as regards economic matters. 

Small-Pox. There are 47 cases of small-pox 

in the London hospitals. , 

The Earl of Crewe. The Secretary of State 
for India was taken seriously ill yesterday even- 
ing while dining with Viscount Morley and vte 
unable to be moved until the morning when he 
was conveyed to Lord Rosebery’s residence lie 
. will be laid aside for at least two months. H. M- 
The King was greatly distressed on hearing tne 
news and caused'immediate enquiries to be made. 
His Lordship is suffering from gastric trouble 
which is ascribed to overwork. He tainted 
•suddenly and the fall produced concussion of the 

The Earl of Crewe passed a restless night but 
his condition in the morning was as satisfactory 
as could he expected. 

It is understood that Viscount Morley will 
represent the India Office and lead the Liberal 
Party in the House of Lords. 

Pakis. Georges Claretie, the son of the dircc- 
tor of the Threatre Erancaise, and Leon Daudct, 
the leader of the Royalist party, fought a duel 
with pistols which arose over the .Bernstein 
affair. Four shots were fired without result. 
They then fought with swords and M. Claretie 
was wounded in the chest. 

Budapest. Both the Austrian and Hungarian 
delegations have finally passed the Dreadnought 
estimates referred to on 24th and 25th Januan. 
Will. Baron Swaythling, late head of the 
banking firm of Samuel Montagu & Co. London, 
left .-£1,150,000 sterling. 

Washington. The Senate adjourned at 4-15 
a. m. being commenced at 7. p. m. the last sitting 
of this Congress. The Tariff-Board hill ^ 
the 3rd reading by 57 to 23 votes, an amendment 
by Mr. Gore providing for reciprocity with Canadf 
being disallowed. On learning that reciprocity 
was doomed this session, Mr. Taft convoked a 
new democratic Congress for an extra session. 

Berlin, It is officially stated that the whole 
of the rebellious Caroline tribe has been captured; 
fifteen of them being implicated in the murder of 
four Europeans were tried by court-martial and 
shot, while 42G were banished. 

Scottish Association Cup. Hamilton beat 

Motherwell by 2 gaols to 1. 

The Earl of Crewe. A later bulletin states 
that there is a distinct improvement in His Lord- 
ship’s condition. 

The late Baron Swatthling. The late 
Baron left .£5,000 to various Jewish charities and 
the remainder in family bequests. Those to his 
children are contingent upon their professing the 
Jewish religion ancl marrying Jews. A codicil 
directs that his two daughters are to lose their 
fourths of their interest if they assist a movement 
known as Liberal Judaism. 

St. Petersburg. The jubilee of the emanci- 
pation of the serfs was celebrated throughout 
Russia by the singing of Te Deums, miiitai 
reviews, sports, .lectures and the unveilling of 

Name of Shamba 

Jilanyami 
El Hathra 
Basra 
Marseilles 
Kinuni Mosbi 
Kizimbani Kubwa 
do Ndogo 
Bumbwi Kizimbani 
Mlango Mkubwa 
do Ntlogo 
Mkanyageni _ 
Bumbwi Sudi 
Bumbwi Mbuyuni 
Kipange 
Mgongowa Ngamia 
Walezo 
Dunga 
Ziwani 
Mtoni 
•Cbukwaui 
Sebuleni 
yelem Jipya 

„ Nyumbani 
„ Ndogo 
„ Mgombewa 
„ Bibi Eatuma 
„ Mbuyuni 
Mbaleni Ndogo 
do Kubwa 
Kitope 
Pangeni aud Ngonjoni 
Mahonda 
Kichelwe 
Mwera Bridge 
Mianziui 

March 7, 1911- 

THE GAZETTE 

House premises on Monday the 13th March, 
1911, at 10.30 a. m., under the usual condi- 
tions- W. B. SWIM BED, 

Chief of Customs. 

Zanzibar, 6th March, 1911. 

* vt tft 

iiWlRdlo vsMlHlVb'tfc'lVU ClTUvUVU *4^ 

loii dwi c-r-flM vflti 
’etmuai (tdUidl tpuiSj 34.h- 

W. B. SWINERD, 

ay <'fi° S-l HR5!, \m. 

NOTICE. 

NOTICE. 

TENDER No. 6 of 1911. 

Construction of a new Tennis Court 

at Weti. 

Tenders are invited for the above work. 
Drawings can be seen and copies of specifi- 
cations, quantities, conditions and forms ot 
contract can be obtained from my Office. 

Sealed tenders should be delivered at the 
Treasury Office not later than noon on 
Monday, 20th March, 1911. 

A. R. GALBRAITH, 

Director of Public Works. 

Zanzibar, 6th March, 1911. 

Particulars are given below of those 
ofimnlvis on which licenses will be granted 
to Sok the coeoanuts. Tho Government 
do not vouch for the exact accuracy of the 
number of bearing trees. 

Applications in connection with these 
licenses should be made to the Department 
of Agriculture. . 

Licenses to gather the fruit on various 
fruit trees on all the Government shambas 
are also granted, and particulars about the 
numbers and descriptions can be obtained 
from the Departments’ Offices. 

IN THE COURT FOR ZANZIBAR AND 

PEMBA. 

Probate and Administration Cause No. 13 of 1911. 

Notice of application for administration of the 
estate of Sulim an bin Mhine late of Ole, deceased. 
Take notice that application having been 
made in this Court by Mahomed bin Mhine and 
Ali bin Mbaruk of Ole, executors of the deceased, 
for the administration with Will annexed of the 
estate of Suliman bin Mhine late of Ole, Chake 
drake Pemba, deceased, the Pemba Magistrate 
will proceed to make a decree in the same unless 
cause be shown to the contrary and appearance 
in this respect entered on or before the 9 Jr day 
of April, 1911. 

W. E. L. BRAID WOOD, 

Pemba Magistrate. 

Chake Chake, 2nd March, 1911. 
Note;—The Will above named is now deposited 
and open to inspection at the Pemba Magistrate s 
Court. 

LUJI * 1l^-JI s\y^\j J t-ri 4-^ W'* 

O & e 

. \ iSj b b b A 

Jj' j L~-L' 

J j Li l ^ 

I j_* SjAO 4S Ub a; l* i JSC _jLLSC'A_i j> 

JUjIJi 

b—Jr* A fJi. &' 

r () 

W. F. L. BRAIDWOOD. 

j V* 

Ml 

^aaeill ^ ej 

-3 S £ 
O c 5“ 
o « ci 
d w R 3, 

District 

Mwera 

3218 
2018 
3618 

1625 -4-11 
2011 -5-11 
1216 -5-H 
5 31-12-10 
417 31-12-10 
1421 -4-H 
7 26 -5-11 
} 31-12-11 
1 -1-H 
322 -4-11 Mkokotom 
225 -4-11 
325 
30 25 

1026 
17 31-12-11 
3831-12-11 
... 29 -4-11 
13;26 -4-11 
9| 1 -1-11 Mwera 
...31-12-10 
331-12-11 Town 

NOTICE. 

p, c. McClellan, 

The nest auction sale 
Cloves-Stems will be held 

of 
on 

Cloves and. 
the Custom. 

Acting Director of Agriculture, 

Zanzibar, 25th January 

1911. 

the gazette 

March 7, 1911. 

APPOINTMENT. 

IN THE COURT FOR ZANZIBAR AND 

PEMBA. 
■ p.Nio. 28OF 1911. 

Probate and Administkation Cadsl - 

Notice of application.for atomrsgion^of 

the estate of Mahomed hm Suleman 
11LC cooccur   
of Zanzibar, deceased. 1in„been made 
TAKE notice, that application bav g Mandri 
in this Court by Earned bm Sulema^ ^ ^ 
and Ali bm Suleman Mandi , e- Mahomed bin 
deceased, for Probate of the^.iU ot the 
buleman Alandri late of A , ’ declee in the 
Magistrate will proceed contrary and 
same unless cause be show n to the co ^ 
appearance in this respect enterca 
the 8th day of April, 1911- 

GEORGE SILLS, 

Magistrate. 

Zanzibar, 7th March, 1911. 
at . The Will above named is non deposited 
hote:—lM . xl T ml Magistrates 

and open to inspection at die loan j 
Court. 

pUj 

^ \ ^ M vv1 jy—^ 

In pursuance of Growers vested in me 
X .1,pi.. 1 o p-f t.hp /anzibar-Order-n» 
, Aht-u.m 19, of the Zanzibar-6rder-ii4 
Council 1906 I appoint Mr, D. C. Suklna, 
S Court Clerk, to'act as Registrar of His 
Hritannic Majesty’s Court, Zanzibar, and as 
Official Receiver and Trustee in Bankruptcy, 
durffio- the absence on leave of Rramroze P.. 

Court this 6th day of March, 1911. 

LINDSEY SMITH, 

Judge. 

H. 

L. M. Court, Zanzibar. 

notice. 

Bakkruptcy Case No. 8 of 1911. 

A meeting of the creditors of Jmna Dhanji 
Ensiness at Ghake Chake, Pemba, 
wiilTe^eld in H. B. Ms. Court on Tuesday the 
21st day of March, 1911. at 10 a.m. 

D. C. SUKHIA, 

Act- Official Receiver and Trustee in Bankruptcy.. 

H. B. M-’s Court for Zanzibar. 

Zanzibar, 1st March, 1911. 

. adi o(_m o.. ^ cr11 
\ <c—^ lF j B’ 

6. Jo, ^ ^ 

H. B. M. COURT, ZANZIBAR. 

Criminal Appeal No. 

b 1, Ei'LM ^' r* 
A_i ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 

From Original Sentence in Case No. 11 of WH 

of the Magistrate's Court, Zanzibar. 

Ali Gulam <s. The Crown. 

Eiil J J. ^ ^ i —J' 

U1 ' JB ^ J Ur ^ ^ —J 

Mr. Framji for the Appellant. 
Mr. Reece for the Crown. 

JUDGMENT. 

v 

, Wrj 

GEORGE SILLS. 

;_SC?=1 \ J Ubj u 

Avail oj 

Ih H. H's  COURT FOR ZANZIBAR AND 

PEMBA. 

. Insolvency Case No. 1 of 1911. 

He Petition of Nasor bin Said bin Mohamed el 

Mugheri of Weti. 

Notice is hereby given that I have nxed liuirs- 
day the 9th March, 1911, for the hearing of the 
petition of the above named applicant to be made 
an insolvent. 

W. P. L. BRAIDWOOD. 

Pemba Magistrate. 

Chake Chake,  lac 

March, 1911. 

The appellant in this case, victed 
tan’s subject, was one of J1166 P®1! a British 
of the theft of a watch and chain from 
subject named Ismail Lhanji. jpg 
The first point taken in the aPPeal dfbad foe 
Magistrate’s trial was, upon Laoji^-nds ^ 
want of jurisdiction. Loth of tkese g ^ 
based upon the wording of Article 16 (i)_o 
Order-in-Coucil 1906, which is.as.fo'lo^.hdiction 
“The Court shall exercise cnminal 1““^^ 
“over Zanzibar subjects accused . t to tbis 
“an offence against any person siihjec , 
“Order, and in such cases there shall be no u 
“to the High Court of Bombay • that the 
It is first argued for the Wlto» ‘“aB 
jurisdiction hereby conterred does not . j 
cases where the actual prosecutor, as distig^ Ag 
from the complainant, is a Zanziba _ ] , ^ is 
the Zanzibar Police prosecuted in pl)p., 
contended that the jurisdiction doe^ noto£ 
The old practice of the Court for a num ^ 
years past ' would seem to lend coiou ^ 
argument. But that practice w as,1 , .j ^ d the 
upon the Treaty of 1886 which estabhs 
Delegated Court, and upon the woi s (A p 
Sultan’s Decree of the 26 Shahaan ^egtee 
1899). The Treaty is now ahrogateu, w 

March 7, 1911 • 

THE GAZETTE 

9 

is repealed; and the wording of Article 16 (2) of 
the Order-in-Council 1906 is couched in phrase- 
ology entirely different from that of the Treaty 
and the Decree. These latter, therefore, afford 
us no assistance, and we are unable to agree with 
Air. Eramji’s argument upon the distinction 
between cognizable and nou-cognizable offences. 
We feel bound to follow only the words of Article 
16 (2) of the Order-in-Council. From those 
words it is quite obvious that it is of no impor- 
tance whether the police or the individual pro- 
secutes. The only question is whether the party 
-charged is accused of committing an offence 
against a person subject to the Order. That is 
clearly the case here. n „ 

It is secondly argued that the words ^offence 
“a-ainst any person subject to this Order” must 
beT united to offences against the person as dis- 
tinguished from all the other offences enumerated 
in the Indian Penal Code e. g. offences against the 
State, against Public tranquility, against Public 
Justice, affecting Coin and Government Stamps, 
.affecting decency and morals, against property, 
and so on It is therefore contended that the 
offence in this case (theft) does not confer the 
lurisdiction exercised by the Magistrate. 

steal one watch from the person of another man. 
It is, we think, reasonably clear that two of the 
accused should have been charged, not with theft, 
but with the abetment of theft. 

The defects in a judgment, however, can be 
cured under Section 537 of the Criminal Pro- 
cedure Code, if these defects have not in fact oc- 
casioned a failure of justice. We follow the 
judgment in Criminal Appeal No. 1 of 1910 of 
H. 13. M. Court (reported in the Zanzibar Gazette 
of the 3rd May 1910 at page 10) and the authori- 
ties there referred to. But, while we are of 
opinion that here, as in that case, there has in 
fact been no failure of justice, we would express 
the hope that the Magistrate will in future judg- 
ments comply fully with the requirements of 
Section 367 of the Code, and frame the exact 
charge v/hich each accused has to meet. (See 
Kalu Mirza v. The Emperor (1910) 37 C. at p. 97). 
The third point in the appeal is that the trial is 
had because, although the sentence on the appel- 
lant was partially based upon his previous con- 
victions, the charge against the appellant contain- 
ed no clause referring to those previous convict- 
ions. UO. 

We do not agree with this view, for two rea- 
sons. First, we think that inasmuch as this 
iuris'diction is based upon a grant of exterritoma- 
lity, the intention of the legislature was that a 
British subject against whom, in any way, a 
crime was committed should have the benefit of 
such protection as a British Court affords. We 
do not think the legislature intended that that 
protection should extend only to direct assaults 
upon his person, hut not to offences against ms 
property. Secondly, we think that if the Lgisla- 
ture had intended Article 16 (2) to be confined 
within the limits contended for, the wording 
would have been not “offences against any per- 
“son subject to this Order” but “offences against 
“the person of anyone subject to this order or 
some similar phraseology showing clearly that the 
narrower meaning was intended. . , 
We hold, therefore, in regard to this first point 
in the appeal, that the Magistrate had jurisdiction 
to try the case. ,, , ,, 

The second point in this appeal is that there 
was no judgment in the Magistrate s Court. e 
judgment of the Magistrate is as lollows:— 

“Verdict guilty” (Proofs of previous convictions 

follow). 

Sentences- 
“No. 1 and No. 2 took the active part in the 
“case and are very bad characters. No. 3 is much 
■“younger hut is also a bad lot. 

“No. 1 - 18 months R. I- 
“No. 2 - 2 years R- L 
“No. 3-6 months R. L 

“GEORGE SILLS.” , 
“7th January, 1911.” 
It is true that this judgment fails considerably 

•short of the requirements of Sec. 367 o e 
minal Procedure Code. That Section provides 
(inter alia) that the judgment shal! contain the 
point or points for determination, t e 
thereon, the reasons for the decision, an 
a specific statement of the offence of w nc , 
. . the Section of the Penal Code under |vIn , 
- • accused is convicted. It is argued, no 

reason, that almost all of these ^elu' , 1 
missing from the judgment now muU PI ' i 
is further argued that whereas Ml .three accused 
in this case were charged with thef ^ t 
sible that three meu could at the same mome 

This question is not without difficulty. It is 
quite clear that where in consequence of previous 
convictions Section 75 of the Indian Penal Code 
is relied upon for an enhancement of the ordinary 
limit of sentence which the Court is competent 
to oive, a charge must he framed under Sec. 75 
(Q°E. v. Dorasani, (1886) 9 M. 284). The charge 
of’ the previous convictions should not be read 
out until the prisoner has been found guilty. 
When he has been found guilty the charge is 
read, and when the previous convictions are either- 
admitted or properly proved they can be used to 
pass, under Section 75, a higher sentence than 
could he inflicted upon the prisoner under the 
ordinary Section of the Penal Code that deals 
with the offence in question. 

That, however, is not the case here. The 
point before us is this. The accused was pro- 
ceeded against under the ordinary Section of the 
Code (Sec. 379) for theft; there was no charge of 
previous convictions framed against him, the 
previous convictions were simply proved after the 
linding of guilty and the appellant thereby 
obtained a sentence which, though, within tire 
three years limit of the ordinary Section, was no 
doubt a higher sentence than he would have 
obtained had the previous convictions not been 
admitted to proof. The question, we have to 
answer is whether the absence of a distinct charge 
containing the previous convictions invalidate^ 
the trial. 

We are of opinion that it does not. ihe Cri- 
minal Code does not, as far as we know, anywhere 
lay down that it is necessary to frame a charge 
in such cases. Section 221 (7) specifically refers 
to proofs of convictions where it is desired to 
enhance, under Sec. 75 of the Penal Code, the 
sentence which the Court is ordinarily competent 
to award. And all other references to the framing 
of such a charge are referable exclusively to that 
particular Section of the Penal Code. We think 
that it is for the appellant’s counsel to show us 
that the Code definitely requires the framing of a 
charge in such ordinary cases, and we do not 
feel that he has succeeded in doing so. The case 
of Queen-Empress v. Dorasani (1886) 9 Madras 
284) the head note of which is not very accurate, 
does appear to support the appellant s contention. 
But against that case we have to consider first 
the invariable practice of this Court for the last 
twenty years, and secondly the terms of a Circular 

showing the practice oi the Cen xal ^ necessary 
India. That Circular says that it is n unless 
to state previous convictions m the cl g cf 
it is intended to prove them fox the puip^ ^ 
affecting the punishment which th ^ 
competent to award, that is, mo1.® could llot 
the accused liable to a sentence jaw such 
otherwise have been passed un m,ovisi0ns of 
as an enhanced sentence under the p ov^^^ ^ 
Section 75 of the Penal Code "ent uncier 
whipping in addition to other pu . ± jn 
Act VI of 18(34 (C. P.C. So W 
Eatanlal & Dlnrajlal, Law of Crimes, t f 
p. 77). We would further refer to the case 
Lai Singh (7 C. P. Cr. 24 quoted in Aiy ai s 
minal Procedure Code, SndEditionp 
case decided that as Berar w as P uie 0ode 
India, previous convictions had und 
in Berar could not be considered /oi^ 
of affecting the punishment on _ ^ 
ion in British India under th® CoJ {ut m 
was not improper to take which 
considerations in measuring the pimsnmeni 
the Court is competent to award. n 
Eor these reasons we are of 1 -r li{in 
except in a trial under Section / not iJQ 
Penal Code, previous convictions ne ^^ 
specifically charged against an a®c

1

us 1 ns tlie 
The fourth point in the appeal nonoems^u^ 
absence of proof of the identi Y , 1
tjie 
as the same person who was c record to 
nrevious cases. There is nothing in the lecoiti to 
show that the accused admitted these comic 101^ 
or that he was formally identified as tf1® P v° s 
who had been so convicted. Pm® The defect, 
absolutely necessay (Aiyac P* ^ H criminal 
however, is curable by Section42b of the Cnmiual 
Procedure Code. Under that b?ction the prisoner 
was re-called by us at the hearing of the appeal 
and admitted the previous convictions alleged 
ncminst him in the lower Court. 
‘ gThe appeal is dismissed and the conviction and 
sentence confirmed. 

21st February, 1911. 

LINDSEY SMITH. 

Judge. 

J. W. MUBISON. 

Asst. Judge. 

rjpxE GAZETTE 

March 7,1911. 

held by all m „„thermg of those 
io » W t*™'™11 to- 

dividually- 

 :o:  
c,,! TTnncv Press Dance was 
•A [^JucEeLindsev Smith, Judge Tomlinson 
given by dnctge nn . h the English 
M-fe “ SStSfcW of the rt 
Club. In spite t , ]llv representative 

Teve? Sn of the European community, 
and there ^^ n^communh^the costumes were 
For so sman a ■- lmoSt invidious to 
!“ke « sXctioh tom such , geneml stunaurd of 

effective Gamsboro s Duchess a notice. 
Corsi and Mrs. Johnson wempnticu^^ 
able in their &Pauls^°1f ™ well thought out. 
representation of a „ g ^ tl re puritan 
Mrs. Barton and ^s. Zmcto ^ ^ looked 
dress and °er5.Smith showed originality 

in the detail of her costume representing the 

G oftiie men, mention must be made of Mons 
Corsi whose -^ion oHhe fgonot^ 

SmS uf « Pedlar were both excellent. Judge 

and' S fMustvhe3 respectively, as was Mm 
Murray in a fantastic get up as a drum-ma]Oi. 

 :o:  

The Annual General Meeting of the Mnazi 
Moja Club was held on Saturday 4th mshwhen 
the following committee was elected for the 
^President;1 Cupt. F B^Barton c. M. G- 

Secv. & Treasurer Mr. H. C. Maxwell 
Golf Secy. Mr. H.M.Dick 
Cricket „ Mr. S. Bivers-bmith 
Tennis ,, Mr. Phillips 
Croquet „ Mr. B. H. Wiggms 

Additional Members Mr. 

nr m. Agent and Consul-General, Mrs. Clarke 
and Miss Broadwood embarked for Europe in 
s s “Feldmarschall” on Sunday last. A Guarxlof 
Honour was furnished by the King’s African B.iles 
at the Agencv under the command of Lieut. J. M. 
Mackenzie hut, with this exception, the departure 
was of a private nature at the special request of 
Mr. Clarke who had taken farewell of the Gov- 
ernment Officials previously. 

Mr. J. H. Sinclair has been appointed Acting 
British Agent and Consul-General during Mr. 
Clarke’s absence on leave. 

Mr. P. Shearman-Turner 

Many in Zanzibar will feel a keen personal 
loss in bidding farewell to 'Sister Lucy who for 
so manv wears has been Sister-in-charge at the 
French Hospital, but who now that that institu- 
tion has been closed, has been transferred to assist 
in the Mission work at Nairobi. So many ie- 
sidents have been patients, at some time or other, 
in the Hospital, that it is hardly necessary to 
write an appreciation of Sister Lucy s devo 
to her work. Besides those who, we might 
almost say, have been fortunate enough to come 
under her direct care there are many others 
who will miss her personality. 

Sister Lucy carries with her the goodwisl 
a very wide circle of friends, to her new sp 
of labour. 

Mr. A F. Gordon, who left for Europe yester- 
day by the s. s. “Purnea”, was entertained by the 
English Club to a farewell dinner on Saturday 
last. A large number of members were present, 
and if further proof were needed to demonstrate 

An interesting figure in Zanzibar has passed 
away in the person of Mohammed bin Sulemanei 
Mandhri who died at his residence Bagham on 
Fridav last. His death recalls one of the most 

Police cases. 
Donkeys 
Goats 
Cow 
Mare 
Sheep 
Babbit 
Fowls 

18 

11 

result of the Bogey 
played on the 1st 

all square) tie 

do ) 
1 down 
9 „ 
2 „ 
2 „ 

March 7, 1911. 

THE GAZETTE 

The following is the 
Competition which wras 
March, 1911. 
A. W. Weddell 

interesting periods in the History of Zanzibar viz- 
the closing of the slave markets. It will be re-, 
called that after the signature to the treaty which 
abolished the slave trade, Seyyid Bargash visited A. W. Weddell 18 
England in 1875 at the invitation of the British T. Dinning 14 
Government and was there received by the Queen p. Camozzi 4 
and by the Prince aud Princess of Wales. E. Johnson fi 
Wc believe Mohammed bin Suleinan to be the B. M. Booth 12 
last Arab survivor of the Sultan’s personal suite J. Gardner scr. 
on that occasion. He visited England a second F. J. Masters 9 
time at the Command of Seyyid Khalifa bin Said. 
He was one of the Kathis of H. H. Courts 
during the reign of Seyyid Bargash, and has for 
Ion" °been one of most influential of the Arab 
community. Born in Zanzibar he is generally 
supposed to have been nearly 100 years old when “ Govt. 
ho died. He was buried in the private burial Insfectoh cases. 
■wound near bis house, and leaves friends of Donkeys 11 
every nationality in Zanzibar to regret his death. Bullocks 3 

ZANZIBAB SAILING CLUB. 14 

The tie was won by T. Dinning 

 :o:  

The following animals were treated at the 
Veterinary Hospital during the month of Febru- 
ary, 1911. — 

z. s. P. C.A. 

Inspector cases. 
<2 
Donkeys 
Goats 
3 

The usual monthly race was held last Saturday. 
Four boats started but this number was eventual- 
ly reduced to three, as Cupid’s Gig retired with a 
broken yard. Sultan sailed an excellent race. 
Crossin" the line first, she maintained a good 
lead throughout, eventually finishing first by ten 
minutes. 

Following arc the times. 
Boat 

Start 
h. m. s. 
Sultan 3 10 
Cupid's Gig 3-0 
Pilot Boat 3 3 30 
Starfish 3 3 1-1 

1st round 
ii. m. s. 
3 5(5 *20 
Retired 
1 1 0 
1 1 0 

Fin ist LTcat 
30 
1 53 
0 
27 
Scr. 

Net time. 
II. M. S. 
1 28 5 
1 52 15 

Li. U. S. “Cupid” acted as committee vessel. 

B I B°T H . 

Sinclair—On 7th instant the wife of Mr. 
J. H. Sinclair, Acting British Agent and Consul- 
General, of a daughter. 

The rainfal in Zanzibar Town during the 
month of February was 0.01 and for the last two 
months was 0.55 of an inch. 

The total number of deaths for February, 1911, 
iu Zanzibar and the Shambas within the Town dis- 
tricts, were 79. Of these:—34 occurred in the 
Town districts, 43 in the North and South 
Ngainbo districts aud 2 in the near Shambas. 

 :°:  

Two thousand, nine hundred and forty-two 
rats, living and dead, have been received at Uie 
various collecting stations for the month ot i' e - 
ruary, 1911. 

GOLF. 

The following are the scores of the Medal 

Competition Which was played on 15th and lu 
Feb., 1911. 
SlNloRS. 

11. Withycowbe -15 + 51 
J. Gardner 15 + 42 
J. W. Murison 15 + 12 
P. Camozzi lb + 15 
C, Janssen 15 + H 

Juniors. 

B. M. Booth 50 + 11 
T. Dinning 17 +45 
A. W. Weddell 15 + 51 
H. Lofting lb + 51 

-10 ■ 
Scr.: 
+1 = 
-1 ■ 
+2 : 

86 
87 
89 
89 
91 

= 791 
= 79 Uie 

-12 
-14 
-18 = 79j 
-18 = 84 

yUe tie was won by A. W. Weddell. 

-:o:~ 

MAILS 

 :o:  

H. H. S. “Barawa” sailed for Pemba early this 

morning. 

The D. O. A. L. s. s. “Feldmarschall” left for 
Europe on tire 5th hist, and the s. s. “Somali” is 
expected to sail for Bombay on the 9th inst. 

The B. I. S. N. Co. s. s. “Purnea” sailed 

Aden via Mombasa yesterday afternoon. 

for 

SMALL POX REPORT. 

Health Office, Zanzibar, 5th March, 1911. 

Total number of cases to date 2(30 
Total number of deaths to date 111 
Total number of cases under treatment 3 
11(3 
Total number of cases discharged 
Total number of persons vaccinated to date 3(3,69(3 

A. IT. SPUEBIEE, 
Health Officer. 

HIGH 

WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 

March 

Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
Mod day 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
Monday 

Morning. 

Date h. 
8 
8 
9 
11 
12 
1 
2 
3 
4 
4 
5 
6 
6 
6 

7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 

m. 
0 
46 : 
45 
10 
4. 
40 
51 
40 
22 
56 
28 
0 
31 
59 

Afternoon. 
m. 
22 
13 
24 

h. 
5 
9 
10 

0 
2 
3 
4 
4 
5 
.5 
6 
6 
7 

55 
19 
17 
2 
39 
12 
44 
16 
45 
15 

F. 

S. BABDO, 

Port Officer. 

12 

THE GAZETTE. 

March 7, 1911. 

RETURN OF MERCHANDISE EXPORTED BY STEAMERS from 1st to 15th JAN., 1911. 

S. M. & Co. s.s. GASCON 

to South on the 2nd 

S. M. & Co. s.s. PUNDUA to 

Bombay ou the 3rd 

A.M.J. & Co, s.s. CLAN MACAULAY to Europe on the 9th 

S.M. & Co. s.s. PURNEA to Aden on the 9th 

E. J. & Co. s.s. KILWA to Kismayu ou the 11th 

Produce 

Mombasa 

Aden 

London 

Mombasa Malindi  Lamu 

Kismayu 

I 

Barawa ! Jlcrka 

Mogdisho 

Cloves halos.. 
Clovcstoms his.. 
Gum 
Copra bags.. 
Ivory 
Rubber cases.. 
Tortoise shells.. 
Hides 
Chillies 
Various p’ligos.. 
Passengers 
Animals .. 

25 
17p. 2t 

231 

9 
174) 
".1 

750 

29 

21 

22, 

83 

D. 0, A. L. s.s. MARKGRAF to Bombay on the 15tli 

C. D. & Bros. s.s. WOODCOCK to Kismayu 

on the 14th 

Produce 

D’Salam 

Kihva 

Lindi 

Tanga 

Bombay 

Mombasa 

Malindi 

Lamu 

Kismayu 

Cloves bales.. 
Clovcstcms bis.. 
Gum bags.. 
Copra bags.. 
Ivory 
Tortoise shells .. 
Hides 
Orchella weed .. 
Chillies 
Various p’kgcs.. 
Passengers 
Animals 

137 

2c. 7t. 56p 

23 

26 

118 

10 

Z’bar Govt. s.s. BARAWA to Pemba 

on the 3rd 

Produce 

Mko- 
kotoni 

Various p'kgea.. 
Passengers 
Animals 

■3 £ 
r Woti 
5 

29 

15 

Z’barGovt. s.s. BARAWA 
to Pemba on the 10th 

Mkoani 

Mko 
kotoni 
52 

o 
179  636 
'i 

c—' 

<§* 

W. B. SWINEBD, 

Chief of Customs. 

March 7, 1911. 

THE GAZETTE 

13 

EUROPEAN MAILS. 

Mails arriving from Europe 

Mails despatched to Europe 

STEAMERS 

Name of Lines 

Prinzregent 
Po 
Kdnard Woermann 
Cavisbi'ooke Castle 
0:<ih 
Piirnea 

D. 0. A. L. 
S. N. S. M. 
D. 0. A. L. 
U.- 0. L. 
M. M. 

;B. I. S. N. Co. 

Mails leave 
London 

Mails 
arrive in 
Zanzibar 

25 
Feb. 
Feb. 
17 
March 8 
10 

March 17 
„ 19 
23 
„ 25 
„ 28 
„ 29 

STEAMERS 

Name oi Lines 

Mails leave 
Zanzibar 

Mails arrive 
in London. 

Po 
Dunvegan Castle 
AVindhuk 
Djemnah 
Eduard W'oermanh 
Purnea 

S. N. S. M. 
U.-C. L. 
D. 0. A. L. 
M. M. 
D.O. A L. 
B. I. S. N. Co. 

March 

April 

22 
24 April 
26 
27 
31 

14 
14 
15 
21 

INDIAN MAILS. 

l 

Mails arriving from Bombay 

. 

STEAMERS Name of Line 

Mails leave 
Bombay 

Alai is 
arrive in 
: Zanzibar 

Mails despatched to Bombay 

STEAMERS 

Name of Lino leave 
Zanzibar 

Mails arrive 
in Bombay 

Pvaesident 
Sultan 

1). 0. A. L, 

March 2 March 10 
19 „ 31 

Somali 
Praosident 

D. 0. A. L. March 9 
!i „ 25 

March 23 
April 7 

H. H. the Sultan of Zanzibar’s Goyernment 

Custom House. 

Statement of principal items of African produce imported into Zanzibar, 

During the Week Ending 4th March, 1911. 

Italian 
H. H. British Benadir 
Dominions East Africa Ports. 

German 
Coast 

Southern : 
Ports I 

Total lbs. 

Equal to 

lbs. 

lbs 

lbs. ! 

lbs. 

Chillies 
Cloves (Z’bar) 
„ (Pemba) 
„ Stems 

Copra 
Gum Copal 
Hides 
Hippo-teeth 
Ivory 
Ithino horns 
Rubber 
Sim Sim 
Tortoise shells 
vVax 

lbs. ! 
1094 
76826 
100SG1 
42755 
284243 
160 

15G 
272!) 

4550 
2380 

2251 

TOTAL... 507S24 

9181 

Ibs.i 
1094: 
75820: 
looser, 
42755 
510045' 
4892 
1GGS 
154 
7GG7 
65 
15G 
2729 
201: 
[35 

Eras. I 
31! 
2100 
2881' 
1221] 
14572 
139 
47! 
4' 
2191 
1 
4| 
77; 
5' 
1] 

lbs. 
9 
16 
20 
20 
25 
27 
23 
14 
2 
30 
16 
34 
20 

748148' 21375] 

23 

221252 
2512: 
150S 
154 
541G 
G5: 

183 

231125 

IS 

IS 

Current Wholesale Market quotations of principal items of African Produce, 

During the Week Ending 4th March, 1911. 

Articles 

Prices 

Remarks. 

Chillies 
Cloves (Zanzibar) 
„ (Pemba) 
,, Stems 

Cocoanuts 
Copra 
Gum Copal 
Hides 
Hippo-teeth 
Ivory 
Rhino horns 
Rubber 
Bim Sim 
Tortoise shells 

Rs. 
7.00 
15.50 
14.72 
4.06 
30.00 
3.00 
12.75 
1.00 
29.75 
42.00 
159.38 
74.37 
1.00 
4.CO 

Rs. 
10.03 
15.50 
4.12 
30.00 
3.87 
34.00 
34.00 
383.00 
103.00 
82.87 
15.00 

to 

to 

Per frasila of 35 lbs. 

1000 Nu;s 
frasila of 35 lbs, 
lbs. 2.1 to 3 lbs. 
frasila of 35 lbs. 

lbs. 14.1 to 15 lbs, 
pound 

w. B. SWINEBD, 

Chief of Customs. 

14 

THE GAZETTE 

March 7, 1911. 

March 7,1911. 

THE GAZETTE 

15 

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS, ZANZIBAR. 

Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
Monday 

Date 
Feb. 28 
Mar. 1 
„ '2 
„ 3 
» 4 
„ 3 
,, 0 

Barometer 

Wind 

S a.m. 
30-084 
30-110 
30-120 
30-030 
29-984 
29- 978 
30- 008 

Dry Bulb 
8 a.ni. 
85-0 
84-3 
83- 6 
84- C 
80-7 
83- 2 
84- 3 

Temperature  X, ^ 
Wet Bulb Max. Min. 
8 a.m. 24 hours 24 hours 
83-3 
78-3 
82-8 
77- 9 
82- 9 
78- 7 
83- 6 
79- 0 
78-0 
76-7 
81- 7 
78-7 
82- 3 
78-7 

88- 3 
90- 8 
92-8 
92-3 
91- 1 
89- 5 
Royal East African Steamship Service. 
90- 9 

UNION-CASTLE LINE. 

DONALD CUREIE & CO., LONDON, MANAGERS. 

Direction 
Calm 
Calm 
WSW 
N E 
s sw 
s s w 
S S E 

Rain 
Indies 
o-oo 
o-oo 
o-oo 
o-oo 
0-76 
0-00 
o-oo 

Week’s means.... 30-045 83-7 78-3 90-8 82-1 

Total.... 0-70 

Total Rainfall to 28th February, 1911, 0-55 inches. 

SHIPPING REPORT 

FOR WEEK ENDING 6th MARCH, 1911. 

Name of Vessel 

Captain 

Tons1,  Cargo Nationa- 

litv 

To whom 
consigned 

Where from Date 

Bound to 

Barawa 
Cupid 
Purnea 
Djemnah 
Kanzler 
Umsinga 
Kiugani 
Feldmarschall 
Cupid 
XJsambara 
Glau Maefadyen 
Kaiser Wilhelm II 
Kiugani 
Woodcock 
Welsh Prince 
Kaiser 
Barawa 

Noorudin 
Jaffer 
Williams 
Durrando 
Schutt 
Robertson 
Beck 
Weisskamm 
Jailer 
Greiwe 
Wright 
Neumullcr 
Beck 
I ohnson 
Sheppord 
ivasch 
.] afferkhan 

1G5 
243 
2127 
2251 
1840 
1SG9 
25 
3819 
243 
3850 
1755 
97 
25 
59 
3218 
1714 
1G5 

General 

do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
do 
Oil 
General 
do 

do 

.Zanzibar 
i do 
[British 
' French 
jOerman 
! British 
i German 
i Zanzibar 
i German 
I British 
Gcrmar. 
do 
British 
do 
German 
Zanzi: 

do 

Z’bar Govt, 
iS. M. & Co. 
|M. M. & Co. 
D.O. A. L. 
Boustcad Bros. 
C. D. & Bros. 
ID. 0/1. L. 
I Z’bar Govt. 
'D.O. A. L. 
1. M. J. & Co. 
0.1). & Bros, 

do 
do 

. Win. O’S’d. & Co. 
D. 0. A. L. 
Z’bar Govt. 

Pemba 
do 
Aden 
Marseilles 
Bombay 
Durban 
D’Salam 
South 
Pemba 
South 
Liverpool 
Bagamoyo 
Tanga 
Barawa 
New York 
South 
Pemba 

Arr. Dep. 
Feb. 
Mar. 
Feb. 
Mar. 
Feb. 
Mar. 

iM 

28 Madagascar 

Pemba 
do 
Aden 
South 
Bombay 
Tanga 
Europe 
Is still in harbour 
Europe 
|Is still in harbour 
jDar-es-Salam 
„ do 
[Is still in harbour 
! do 
do 

do 

Dhows arrived. 

Zanzibar & British 73 

German 13 

Indian 4 

F rench — 

Arabian 23 

Dhows sailed. 

Zanzibar & British 80 

German 20 

Indian 2 

French — 

Arabian 10 

Total...'. 113 

Total. 

112 

F. S. BARDO, 

Port Officer. 

A combination of fine fkvour and great strength 

BROOKE BOND’S TEA 

Wholesale Agents;- 

Messrs. \VM. O'S.WauD & Co., 

Sold by all tha leading Storedealers. 

Zanzibar , Mombasa, British and German East Africa. 

Sailings from Zanzibar for England. 

Via Mozambique, Chinde, Beira, Delagoa Bay, Natal and 
v.ith transhipment. Cape Ports and Canary Islands calling 
occasionally at Lobito Bay and St. Helena and Ascension. 

Via Mombasa, Aden, Port Sudan, Suez, Port Said, 

Kaples and Marseilles. 

Sailing horn Zanzibar. 

Steamer. 

Captain. 

Sailing from Zanzibar. 

1911 

25th March 
22nd April 
20th May 

S S DUNVEGAN CASTLE 
S.S. CARISBR00KE „ 
S.S. GOOEKHA 
S.S. GASCON 

S. Henderson, e.n.e. 
G. W. Armstrong 

1911 

24th March 
21st April 
19th May 
10th June 

Royal Mail Steamers from Natal (via West Coast.) 

Making Connection with the above. 

Tons. Captain. 

9th March E.M.S. NORMAN 
16th „ 
23rd „ 
30 th „ 
6th April 
13th „ 
Through bookings can be arranged via West Co. 

7,537 
BALMORAL CASTLE lo/hl 
ARMADALE CASTLE 12,973 
KILDONAN CASTLE 9,GE 
WALMER CASTLE 
SAXON 

J. L. Stanistrect. 
R. Eendall. 
J. Tyson. 
F. J. Moseley, b.n.k. 
g. C. Brown. 
T. J. Bremncr, k.is.b. 

i woei- Coast by Mail or Intermediate 

Steamers with transhipment at Fatal. , , on 

Passengers can be bookc , , ia West Coast) at regular 
Intermediate Steamers sail from Natal tor England (ate 

intervals. ^ TGv Beira and Mauritius. 

Regular four weekly 

Homeward Return Tickets. 

„ , . i_ fOVnq hptween tlic Sciiu© Ports 

Coastwise Tickets. 

Coastwise Ticketi are ifflned it Eeduced Fares. 
^°a . ,■ rnnnrdina FrcijUt and Passages. 

For Sailin', W*. M ’ ’ 

apply to 

Messis. Smith Mackenzie * 

16 

THE GAZETTE 

March 7, 1911- 

British India Steam Navigation Company, Id. 

ROYAL MAIL SERVICE. 

T? M S “Purnea” will carry mails each month between this port, Mombasa 
and the date, give,, below, costing at Aden with the Eoyal 
Mail Steamers of tlieP. and O. S- N- Co- 

P, M. S. “PURNEA” is expected to arrive from Aden via Mombasa on 29th March. 

homewards,  

Leave 
Zanzibar 

P, & 0. S. N. Go’s. 

R. M. S. 

1911 
3rd April 
1st May 
30th May 

CALEDONIA 
ARABIA 

Steamer 

Leaves Aden 

Mails arrive 

London 

Steamer Arrives 

Marseilles 

Steamer 

Arrives London. 

^ 1911 
12th April 
12th May 
9th June 

1911 
21st April 
( 21st May 
’ 18th June 

1911 

22nd April 
21st May 
18th June 

I9IT 
28th April 
26th May 
25th June 

OUTWARDS, 

P. & O. S. N. Go’s. 

R. M. S. 

Leave London 

Mails leave 

London 

Steamer Loaves 

Marseilles 

R.M.S. Purnea 
Leaves Aden 

R. M. S. Purnea 
clue Zanzibar. 

CALEDONIA 
HIMALAYA 

3rd March 
31st March 
28th April 

10th March 
7th April 
5th May 

10th March 
7th April 
5th May 

20th March 
17th April 
15th May 

29lh March 
26th April 
2Gth May 

LONDON CARGO LINE. 

OUTWARDS. 

S. S. MURISTAN 
S. S. SERBISTAN 
S. S. AVRISTAN 

4 250 „ is expected to arrive on the 11th March. 
4,692 ” will leave London on 16th February. 
j’gOO „ will leave London on 16th March. 

HOMEWARDS. 

S S. MURISTAN will sail on or about 12th March for Mombasa, Aden, Port Sudan, Suez, 1 oit 

Said, Marseilles and London. 

Taking Cargo for Continental Ports and the United Kingdom. 

BOMBAY-EAST & SOUTH AFRICAN LINE. 

ci S PUNDUA left Bombay on 2nd March for Seychelles, Mombasa and 
Zanzibar and will sail hence on 20th March for Mozambique Beira, Be agoa Bay 
fnd Dmban She will return here direct from Durban, and sail hence on 10th April 
for Bombay via Mombasa. 

This service will he continued every 28 days. 

For Rates of Freight, Passage Money and any further particulars 

apply to 

SMITH, MACKENZIE & Co. 

ag-ents, 

B. I. N. S. Co. Ld., aud P. & O. S. N. Co. 

March 7, 19U. 

THE gazette 

17 

COJVL-PbacYInTJE deb 

MESSAGERIES MARITIMES. 

The S. s. Djemnah will sail for Marseilles on the 27th March md Mombasa, 

Djibouti, Suez and Port Said. 

FRENCH MAIL STEAMERS 

The s. S. Oxus from Marseilles is expected on the 28th March and will 
sail the same day for Mayotte, Madagascar, (Mahe—Seychelles by transhipment 
at Diego-Suarez), Bourbon and Mauritius. 

Passengers and cargo are booked for the above destinations and (by transhipment 
to steamers of the same company) to Havre, Dunkirk, London (cargo only), India, 
China, Japan, Australia, Black Sea, and Mediterranean ports. 

Passengers booked to Lourenco Marques and Durban by main line 
steamers as far as Majunga and thence by M.M. local steamer calling at Namela, Morun- 
d' vu Ainboliibe, Tulear and due in Durban on the 12th of every month. 

Through single and return tickets are issued to the above destinations and to 

London (by rail from Marseilles). 

Return tickets to Marseilles and London available for two years issued 

at a full single fare and a half. 

The Company are prepared to grant at special rates through tickets to 
Brindisi, Naples, Genoa, Venice, by transhipment at Port Said or Alexand- 
ria to the steamers of the “Societa Nazionale di Servizi Maritimi” 

Passengers may also go to Marseilles via Comoro Islands, Majunga, Nossi-Be, 
Diego-Suarez, Seychelles, Aden, Djibouti and Egypt by paying an extra fare of M in 
1st class—T3 in 2nd class—£1-10-0 in 3rd class. Sailings by that route on or about the 
2Sth of each month; arrivals in Marseilles on or about the 25th of the following month. 
Special reduced fares are granted for 1st and 2nd class single tickets 

to Officials, Missionaries and their families. 

MONTHLY SEEYICE BETWEEN ZANZIBAR AND DIE GO-SUAREZ. 

The s S MPANJAKA will leave Zanzibar on the 25th of every month for the 
above destination via Comoro Islands (Moroni, Mohely, Mutsamudu and Mayotte) 
Majunga, Analalave, and Nossi-Be. 

For further particulars apply to 

THE AGENT, MESSAGERIES MARITIWIES, ZANZIBAR. 

Telegraphic address: hlESSAGERIE, ZANZIBAR. 

HEAD. 

Insist upon having 

ICOLMAN’S 

mustard. 

COLMAN’S 

No. 1 

RICE 

STARCH. 

As 

COLMAN’S 

No. 1 AZURE 

and WINDSOR 

BLUES. 

March 7,1911. 

THE GAZETTE 

In 

Buying 

Lime Juice. 

it is 

necessary » to obtain the original and genuine article. 

ROSE’S 

LIME JUICE 

Is sold only in glass bottles (embosssd with the lime fruit, and the name 
L. ROSE & CO.). The public are warned to beware of spurious 
imitations which axe made either from cheap lemon juice or chemicals. 

BY APPOINTMENT TO 

HIS HIGHNESS SEYYID ALI BIN HAMOUD, 

Sultan of Zanzibar. 

Fortify the System against Disease 

* AND or 

BUILD UP YOUR HEALTH WITH 

18 

THE GAZETTE 

March 7, 1911. 

Societa Nazionale di Servizi Marittimi Linea llla. 

ITALIAN ROYAL MAIL SERVICE. 

Eeo'iilar sailings every four weeks from Genoa to Zanzibar calling at Naples, 
Leghorn, Catania, Alexandria, Port Said, Massawa, Aden, Benadir Ports, Kismayu, 
Mombasa, and vice versa. ‘ _ 

Passengers and cargo booked for all the above destinations as veil as (by tranship- 
ment into the Company’s other services) for the Adriatic, the Levante, Black Sea, North 
and South America, Bombay and the Far East Ports. 

Wine or beer at meals free. 
Special rates granted to Missionaries, Officials and their families. 

The s. s. “ Po ” from Europe is due to arrive at Zanzibar on the 19th March and will 

be leaving again for Europe on the 92nd March. 

For further information apply to 

WORMS & C1? 

Telegraphic Address: WORMS, Zanzibar. Acting Agents. 

The Highest Standard of 

DANISH BUTTER is 

Well Tasting - 
Pure . - ■ - 
Economical in use. 

Don’t delay, 
but order 
at once. 

“TWO HANDS 

Special prices and samples on application. 

Br&ivd. 

| A/S The UNITED DANISH BUTTER. PRESERVING Co.,Etd., 

Manufacturers— 

Copenhagen, DenznarK. 

B. ANDREW BROS. & CO. 

JEWEL J-iELtS. 

Dealers in Precious Stones. 

Manufacturers of Tortoise-shell, Ivory and 

Ebone Curiosities. 

Hand made Ceylon lace etc. 

Every article warranted genuine. 

Prompt attention given to orders and 
every elibro made iu give to Customers 
the utmost satistdcuon. 

]VEain (Street—Zanzibar. 

rj: Head Office: Point de Galle, Ceylon. 

Branch at Daressalam. 

I 

By Special Warrant, 

JEWELLERS AND GOLDSMITHS 

To 

H. H. THE SULTAN OF ZANZIBAR. 

DRrCOI — ULUinuuu - 

ALL IMPURITIES OF THE BLOOD, 

TORPID LIVER, DEBILITY, 

lassitude, &c, 

WELL KNOWN AS may ahvriys^be^-elied on ” 

for over 7Q Years. 

When feeling LANGUID 

or OUT OF SORTS fake 
WILKINSON’S SARSAPARILLA 
("The best PICK-ME-UP.") 

gy IMPORTANT EVIDENCE. 

: ^ tS..s‘i?po.h.r 
Mmrl •/r never without it, for wh«» 
o'd"*o'’.o7« from inHety or . dr** 
two animate* me. 

WILKINSON’S SARSAPARILLA' 

Clo.n.ea th* Blood of all Dans.rou. Humour* 

CAUTION. ^ 

Beware of and Refuse all 

IMITATIONS AND SUBSTITUTES. 

REMEMBER, 
11 Hundred, of .ubtl. m.ltdles .ro flo.tln* 
.round ns, r«.dT to .tUok oh.rSTer thorn I. 
weak part. W» may «>oap« ™*“T . fatal 
ahoft by knenln* onfaalrea wall fortUfad with 
PURE BLOOD." .    

CORRESPONDENCE. 

Advertisements and notices for pub- 
lication should reach the GAZETTE Office 
not later than SATURDAY in each week. 
Otherwise they cannot be accepted for 
the current number. 

USHER’S WHISKY 

QUALITY GUARANTED 

H. H. M. de SILVA & Co. 

Established 1887. 

Manufacturing Jewellers and Dealers m 
precious stones, Ceylon Tea and hand 

made lace always in stock. 

“THE BBAHD” FOR EAST AFRICA. 

Orders promptly and accurately execut ed 

at moderate charges. 

Every article guaranteed. 

Head Office: (3 Chatham Street, Colombo. 

20 

THE GAZETTE 

March 7, 1911. 

March 7, 1911. 

THE GAZETTE 

21 

BESSON & CO. 

IMPORT _\nd EXPORT GENERAL MERCHANTS. 

MARSEILLES 

THE BOMBAY AND PERSIA STEAM NAVIGATION Co., Ltd. 

Steamers of the above Company will start every three weeks from Bombay for 
Zanzibar via Porebunder, Goa, Lamu, Mombasa and Tanga and from Zanzibar will go to 
Dar-es-Salam. On return from Dar-es-Salam they will sail for Bombay via the said ports. 

Zanzibar, Mombasa, Kampala, (Uganda), Tanga, Bagamoyo. 

For cargo and passengers, 

apply to 

SOLE AGENTS FOR 

HUMBER & Go’s. Bicycles, Ladies’ & Gentlemen’s, always in stock. 

PAUL DEULLIN’S (Epernay) Champagne. 

CUSENIER’S High Class Liqueurs & Brandies. 

POULET PERE & EILS (Beaune) Burgundy Wines. 

LAPOUYADE & Go’s. (Bordeaux) Red & White Clarets. 

<£ Manufacture Francaise d’Armes et de Cycles de Saint Etienne.” 

General Outfitters (Catalogue containing more than 7,000 illustrated articles, on application). 

The North British & Mercantile Insurance Co., Fire Insurance. 

Total Funds: Over £19,000,000. 

Yearly Revenue: Exceeding £4,000,000. 

DiNNilORd’S 

Safest and most 
Gentle Medicine for 
Infants, Children, 
Delicate Females, 
and the Sickness 
of Pregnancy. 

I IMPORTANT 

NOTICE. 
In consequence 
of numerous imi- 
| tat ions purchasers 
must see that 
“Dinneford&Co.” 
is on every bottle 
and label. 

•lAGNESIA 

The Universal Remedy for Acidity of the Stomach, Headaphe, 

Heartburn, Indigestion, Sour Eructations, Bilious Affections. 

{Best ^drinfi for Mot (Countries is 

BARLEY WATER. 

The Best Way to make Barley V/ater is to use 

% 

It can be obtained in One Pound Tins at the Local Store. 

Manufacturers : 

KEEN, ROBINSON & Co., L td., 

LONDON, ENGLAND. 

L 

GulamMsein, Pirmatiomed & Co., 

Agents. 

c/o Messrs. G. B. Somji & Co. 

JEYES’ FLUID 

AISTD 

FOWDEB. 

Punjab Exhibition 1893-94. 

Diploma for Excellence of Exhibit awarded. 

AGENTS: 

SMITH MACKENZIE & CO. 

Zanzibar and Momba? 

B. N. TALATI. 

BUILDING CONTRACTOR, 

AND 

AUCTIONEER, GENERAL MERCHANT, 

AND 

COMMISSION AGENT, 

ZANZIBAR. 

Household and Office Furniture, Hinks’ 
and other Lamps, Table glasses, Cutlery, 
Crockery, Plate Enamelled and Aluminium 
ware, Stationery, Icechests, Iron Safes, 
: Filters, Clocks and Watches. 

Travellers’ and Explorers’ Requisites of 

j every description always in stock. 

Green Waterproof Canvas, Tents and 

Tarpaulins. 

India Rubber Goods, Steel Trunks and 
Uniform-boxes, Electric Bells, Wires, 
-Pushes and Staples, &e. Ac. &c. 
1 Blundell’s Paints and Oil - and Water 
. Colours, Varnishes, &c., &c. 

a „j. Jpy.y. 

LEA & 

—oives a 

i—j 

delightfully 

appetizing 

flavour to all 

Meat Dishes, 

Fish, Soup, 

Game, Cheese, Salad, &c., 

and assists digestion. 

Original and Qcnuine 

WORCESTERSHIRE, 

22 

the gazette 

March 7, 1911. 

DEUTSCHE OST-AFRIKA-LINIE. 

Regular Service with Europe, South Afrika and Bombay. 

Next Arrivals from Europe. 

Next Sailings for Europe- 

arrivals and sailings. 

4 

*S. S. PBINZHEGENT 
§S. S. EDUARD WOERVANN 
•S. S. GENERAL 

From Bombay. 

ts. S. PRAESIDENT 
fS. S. SULTAN 

From' South. 

*'S. S. WINDHUK 
tS. S. PRAESIDBNT 
*S. S. BURGERMEISTER 
tS. S. MARKGRAF 

on or about 17th March 
„ 23rd „ 
„ 7th April 

* S. S. IVINDHUK 
§ S. S. EDUARD WOERMANN 
t S. S. BURGERMEISTER 

on or about 20th March 
„ 31st „ 
„ IGth April 

For Bombay. 

IGth March 
30 th „ 

t S. S. SOMALI 
f S. S. PRAESIDENT 

For South- 

23rd March 
25 th ,, 
13th April 
13th ,, 

* S. S. PRINZREGENT 
f S. S. PRAESIDENT 
t S. S. SULTAN 
* S. S. GENERAL 

* Alain Line 
t Bombay Line 
§ Intermediate Line 

9th March 
25th ,, 

18th March 
17th ,, 
31st „ 
8th April 

^Notice to consignees of Import cargo. During the discharging of our steamers a representative 
of the Agency will be present at the Custom House between the hours of SJ and 9-1- a, m. to 
examine all broken packages and settle claims on basis of such examination, provided the packages 
are broken prior to delivery to Custom House authorities. 

The Company will not entertain any claim of whatsoever nature later than 3 days after dis- 

charging has been completed. 

For further particulars apply to 

Deutsche Ost-Afrika-Linie, Zanzibar. 

Tel. ADDRESS “HUNDEWADT”, (Zanzibar.') 

SMITH MACKENZIE & CO. 

Agents:—BRITISH INDIA STEAM NAVIGATION CO., LD. 

LLOYDS’ 

District between Guardafni & Cape Dalgado, Including 

Zanzibar & Pemba. 

RBDLITER’S TVGrE>TOY. 
ASIATIC PETROLEUM Co., Lu. 
Importers of Kerosine Oil in Bulk and Case. 

Cory Bros. & Co. Ld., Best Welsh Coal (Myrthyr). 

Contractors to the British and German Navies. 

The African Lakes Corporation Limited. 

INSimAJSTCE -A.QETSTTS. 

Sole Importers ofAlexander Fergusson & Co.’s Paints and Oils, 
D. & J. McCallum s “Perfection” Whisky, Jas. Mcllwraith & Co.’s Barge Covers 
and Tarpaulins, Jas. Buchanan & Co.’s “Black and White” Scotch Whisky 
Portland Cement (Whites Band.) 

Importers of:—“BullDog” Ale & Stout, Galvanized Sheets, 

Brandies, Champagnes etc. etc. 

4 

SMITH MACKENZIE & COMPANY—ZAN2IBAK AND MOMBASA 

Printed and Published for the Proprietors at the “GAZETTE” Press, Zanzibar 

