^  THE GAZETTE February 26, 1912. 

Society Nazionale di Servizi Marittimi. 

ITALIAN ROYAL MAIL SERVICE. 

Regular sailings every four weeks from Zanzibar to Genoa calling at Mombasa, 
Kismayu, Benadir Ports, Aden, Massawa, Port Said, Catania, Leghorn, Naples, 
and vice versa. 

Passengers and cargo booked for all the above destinations as well as (by tranship- 
ment into the Company’s other services) for the Adriatic, the Levante, Black Sea, North 
and South America, Bombay and the Far East Ports. 

Wine at meals free. 
Special rates granted to Missionaries, Officials and their families. 

THE GAZETTE 

FOR ZANZIBAR. 

VOL. XXI. No. 1049] 

MONDAY, MARCH 4, 1912. 

[PRICE 12 CENTS. 

For further information apply to 

Jteutrr s SHrgrams. 

Telegraphic Address: SERMAR, Zanzibar FRIGERIO & CO 

Agents, Zanzibar and Mombasa. 

BULL’S 

HEAD. 

Insist upon having 

ICOLMAN’S 

MUSTARD. 

COLMAN’S 

COLMAN’S 

No. 1 

No. 1 AZURE 

RICE 

and WINDSOR 

STARCH. 

BLUES. 

As used in the Royal Households. 

LIPTOITS TEA 

UNAPPROACHED 

BECAUSE 

/ UNAPPROACHABLE 

Sole Agents in Zanzibar and German East Africa. ^9 

SMITH MACKENZIE & CO. ) 
BESSON & Cie. L Z A A J? 
BOUSTEAD BROS. j 

Printed and Published at the “GOVERN*. W7TGAZETTE” Press Zanzibar. 

A 

26t/i February. 

The Late Duke op Fife. The H. M. S. 
“Powerful” with his Grace’s remains on board 
arrived at Portsmouth on Saturday. Their Ma- 
jesties and Queen Alexandra met the Princess 
Eoyal and her Daughters, who also came to 
England on the Man-of-War. The Eoyal Party 
saw the remains entrained for Windsor, and then 
returned to London. 

The remains vveife accompanied by a military 
escort, and placfff in the Memorial Chapel at 
Windsor. 

Coal Strike. - The Owners and men had 
separate conferences on Friday morning, after- 
wards they went to the Foreign Office, to discuss 
the position with the Cabinet Ministers. 

Mr. Asquith had an audience with the Ejne-. 

It is understood to be over the situation 

Messrs. J. & P. Coats Ltd., of Paisley, have 
issued notices to cease work, to all their em- 
ployees, this step affects nearly 10,000 persons. 
Other hrms continue to act similarly. 

The Transport Workers Federation has decided 
to give the Miners Federation whatever assis- 
tance it may consider necessary, such as the 
refusal to handle coal, whether native or im- 
ported. .. 

The Admiralty have ceased their heavy pur- 
chases of coal, and the Navy is supplied for 
several months. 

It is stated that the question of postponement 
of the service of the strike notices has not been 
discussed at the Meetings- of the Conferences of 
Cabinet Ministers. The men’s Leaders and the 
Coal Owners have left London to prepare for the 
struggle in the Provinces. 

It is now thought that there is some possibility 
of an agreement by the elimination of South 
Wales from a representation at the Conferences 
The Mayors of England and Wales meet at the 
Mansion House on Saturday to pass a resolution 
urging the Coal owners and the Miners to reco°'- 
mse the paramount claims of the community & 
Mr. Lloyd George was the chief speaker at a 
demonstration of the National Union of Women’s 
Suffrage, at the Albert Hall. Pie said that the 
^ denial of the suffrage to women was a barbarous 
anachronism. Mr. Asquith’s pledges gave the 
opportunity of ending it during this present 
Session. Eeferrmg to the unceasing interrupt- 
ions, he warned the Militants that if they 
attempted to enforce their will either on the 
Cabinet, or on the Liberal Party, they would 
hopelessly shatter both, and they would not se- 

cure better facilities from the 
Administration, 
n ^.S9uhh, in a letter, expresses his reoret 
ESoAKi tIie 

Unionist Party or 

The Mayors, to the number of two hundred at 
their meeting on Friday passed a resolution’by 
r,it i VOt
eSi 1116 Lord Mayor of London said 
that the strike must be stopped, by hook or by 
crook. A committee was formed to watch eventsx 
The crucial day will be Tuesday, when the 
DeJegates from the National Miners Federation 
among Whom there are many extreme men, will 
meet m London finally to decide whether to 
acceptor reject the proposals which may result 
from the Ministerial Conferences. 7 ' 

t

Women’s Suffrage. Mr. Lloyd George at 
the Albert Hall, further said that he repudiated 
the referendum as a denial of justice to Wonfen 
he mentioned that two thirds of the Cabinet 
vote foi-Female Suffrage. '-aumet 
The “Delhi.” After the Board of Trade Fn 

quu'y into the loss of this vessel the rw? , 
found that she was not navigated in a proper and 

3,1 -I °,f the Master, but, considerino- his 
unblemished record, the trying circumston^c •" 
which he was_ placed, and the able manner in 
S~i i i „ tbCLcLTIb tlilLGJL 
Scat? iaS refrained from baling with 

his certi- 

Waterloo Cup. Tidetime 
beating a dog named Adversary 

won the Cup, 

tended*witlmFU'°.Penin§ Parliament was at- 
i Vno ^NT delirious enthusiasm. The Chamhei 
b, 428 to 9 votes, mtified ;tte decree SKfc 
chel S TheTc'W,01 “I?1-!, all the depntiel 
cLeejing. The population took a holiday, form 
mg jup into processions carrying flan-s md 
demeustratmg before the Quirinal, whera tW 

liuv3^61'^^80 bef°re the Wai' 0ffice- 

thafitaif™ ^T1' The states 
r Wh wL Warships were bombarding Bey- 
roujh, where great panic has been caused by then- 

fertbn Wi”SRtG thai Cl'aisei’s “Volturuo” 
• Lranbaldi demanded the immediate qm- 
cerot some Turkish gunboats. Before the 
einor was able to negotiate the Italian vessels 

L in the harbour. Several 
ngs near the harbour were damaged sixtv 
■ons were killed. The inhabitants fled pant 

tzts&r 
enter’s Agent at Constantinople reports tbnt 
led toll,?TS,md tl:e Ssbie ‘“'Sill.h" 
“A nillnV- ^ fl'T the Italian vessels, the 
A uillah was burned and a torpedoe boat sunk 
H casualties amount to 15 killed and ?o6 

2 

the gazette 

March 4, 1912. 

wounded. The Italian Warships left for an 
unknown destination. 

In the panic which followed the bombardment, 
the crowd forced the Government Armoury, and 
armed themselves with rifles. In the disturban- 
ces that followed thirty persons were killed, 
including two Kussian subjects, fifty were wound- 
ed. 

The Porte has sent a circular to the Powers 
warning them of her intention to close the 
Dardanelles, and expel all Italians from Turkey, 
in the event of Italian operations in the Aegean! 
Sea. 

It is officially stated in Rome that the Italian 
men-of-war were sent to Beirut to destroy the 
Turkish vessels located there, for the purpose of 
facilitating the carriage of contraband of war, and 
attacks on the Italian Transports. 

Reuter’s Agent at Rome telegraphs that Ad-* 
miral Faravelli, in his report, states that he 
surprised the “Avnillah” and the Torpedoe in the 
Port of Beirut at dawn. Both were given a 
respite till 9 a.m., when, as they had not sur- 
rendered, the Italian vessels opened fire, the 
Turkish gunboat replied vigorously, but was 
silenced in 20 minutes, and then caught fire. 

The torpedoe boat was then shelled and sunk.. 
The Admiral denies the bombardment of the 
Town. 

Reuter’s Agent at Malta reports that H. M. S. 
“Lancaster” has been ordered to leave there 
immediately, under sealed orders, she is coaling 
and taking in provisions as speedily as possible. 
It is believed she is proceeding to Beirut. 

Reuter’s Agent at Toulon reports that arrange- 
ments are being made to despatch a cruiser to 
the Levant to protect French interests. 

The situation was satisfactory yesterday morn- 
ing the population were calm, martial law has 
been proclaimed. 

■The official reports in Constantinople are that 
50 were killed and 98 wounded, all among the 
Turkish crews and the spectators thronging the 
quays. The Foreign Educational Establishment 
was not touched. 

News from Malta states that the cruiser 

“Lancaster” has left for the Aegean Sea. 

A French warship has been ordered from Crete 

to Beirut. 

The Porte has protested to the Powers, declar- 
ing that the raid is contrary to International Law. 
Washington. Mr. Knox has started on a 

political mission to Central America. 

Mexico. It is reported from New York that 
the rebels were induced to enter the Town of 
Torreon owing to a pretended evacuation by the 
Maderists, who then mowed down the rebels with 
quick-firers, killing and wounding 237; violent, 
racialism was displayed. 

The United States. The Roosevelt Campaign 
has alarmed the Conservative Republicans, wb'p 
frantically appeal to Mr. Taft to save the countiy 
i'rom the greatest peril since the War of tie 
secession. 

Reuter’s Agent at Washington ^reports tint 
President Taft, in addressing the Navy Leagm, 
said that the Country wanted two battleships ii 
1912. He favoured a good strong Navy to enabl; 
them to maintain their position, and make thei.' 
reasonable demands respected. The Presidec 
laid emphasis on the fact that, until war wai 
abolished, a country would be lacking in foresigk 
and common sense, if it failed to maintain a stron; 
Navy. 

Fbance. The Senate has voted the reductioi 

of the old age pension limit to (50 years. 

There is a great National movement on foot in 
France to supply the Army7' with an aerial Fleet,, 
the Municipalities are opening subscriptions, 
four Paris newspapers have contributed £2,000 

The French Government has decided to' 

abolish Lotteries. 

An ex-nun, soeur Candide, has been sentenced 
to 18 months imprisonment for obtaining money 
for charitable purposes. 

China. The Daily Telegraph correspondent 
at Peking telegraphs that the Federation of 
Mongol Princes has elected Yuan-shi-kai as 
President of the Federated Empire. 

Berlin. The Bheinisch Weslfaolisch Zeitung 
reports that Lieut. Brandon tried to escape from 
the fortress at Wesel, on the night of the 22nd 
February. He filed through his window bars, 
then descended by a rope into the courtyard, 
where a sentry threatened to shoot him ; he was 
recaptured. 

Russia. A semi-official statement has been 
issued in which it is declared that in spite of the 
readiness of Russia to make every sacrifice, even 
to the extent of injuring her own sugar trade and- 
her producers, Germany still persists in her 
irreconcilable position. Consequently Russia 
disclaims any responsibility in event of the break- 
down of the Conference. 

Potsdam. One hundred and eighty seven 
men at the training school for non-coms have 
been suddenly stricken with symptoms of poison- 
ing. There have been no deaths, but isolated 
cases are continuing to appear. 

Society Engagement. The Gaiety actress 
Miss Olive May, is engaged to Lord Victor Paget. 
Miss Olive May has contradicted the announce- 

ment of her engagement to Lord Victor Page. 

Espionage. A seaman, a naturalised English- 
man, born in Germany, has been arrested in 
Christiania aboard H. M, S. “Foxhound,” charged 
with espionage. He has arrived at Chatham 
where he will be tried. 

Australian Cricket. Messrs. Macartney 
and Webster have been selected to fill the places 
of those players who refused to accept the invita- 
tions, as reported yesterday. This precipitancy 
on the part of the Board of Control, makes the 
situation more hopeless. Mr. J. 8. McGowen, 
the Premier of New South Wales, is endeavour- 
ing to mediate, if no settlement is reached. 
Messrs. Noble, Hill and Laver retire from first 
class cricket. 

Test Match. Heavy rain had fallen over- 
night, and the weather was muggy, and the 
wicket slow, occasionally7 bumping a little, but, 
notwithstanding the unfavourable Meteorological 
conditions, there was a large attendance England 
scored 324 runs, Wooley not out 133. He gave 
a most resolute display, hitting twelve fours. 
Hordern took 5 wickets for 95 runs. Australia 
scored 134 runs for 5 wickets. 

27 th February. 

The Grand Duke of Luxemburg has been suc- 

ceeded by his eldest daughter, aged seventeen. 

Coal Strike. The latest reports from the 
coalfields, and as to the resolutions passed at the 
Miners’ meetings, and the interviews between the 
Owners and the Miners, are almost without ex- 
ception, pessimistic in the extreme, hut, it is 
understood that Mr. Lloyd George and Mr. As- 
quith will be allowed to address the Miners’ 
Federation to-morrow. 

The Daily Ncivs believes that they will an. 
nounce important concessions, as a result of the 

March 4, 1912. 

THE GAZETTE 

conferences with the Owners, in connection with 
the principle of the minimum wage, which it is 
hoped will induce the men to suspend their 
notices, pending negotiations as to the details of 
the agreement. 

Mr. Asquith has appealed to the dominant per- 
sonalities among the Welsh Coalowners, on 
patriotic grounds, to accept any decision of the 
English Coalowners. The former have agreed. 

On the other band preparations have been 
made in all the Garrison Towns to despatch 
troops to the Coalfields. At Aldershot, 16,000 
troops are ready to be sent at a moment’s notice, 
if required. 

Large bodies of Rhenish and Westphalian 
Miners have resolved emphatically against an 
Anglo-sympathic strike, declaring that during 
the German strikes, England flooded Germany 
with coal; they say “they won’t pull out the 
chestnuts from the fire for the Englishmen”. 

The Chesterfield Miners have struck, their 
notices having expired. They are perfectly orderly, 
the negotiations at the last moment failed. 

The Amalgamated Society of Railwaymen ad- 
vises its members to do nothing to precipitate a 
■ sympathetic strike, until further notice. 

The Owners last night re-conferred with Mr. 

Asquith, at Downing Street. 

tors on the quays were killed, or wounded, by the 
Italian fire on Saturday. Some of the business 
premises were damaged. 

Reuter’s Agent at Rome telegraphs that a Bill 
has been submitted to the Chamber sanctioning7 
the extraordinary credits of 170 million lire 
already opened for the expenses of the War and 
authorising further credits of 35 million lire. 
Out of this total of 205 millions, 57 are covered 
by past surplusses, the rest will be equally divided 
over the Budgets till the year 1917 The Bill 
also provides for 10J million Lire for Harbour 
Works at Tripoli, Benghazi, Derna and Homs 
and for telegraph cables. 

Australian Cricket. Reuter’s Agent at 
Sydney reports that Messrs. Mayne, Kell away 
Emery Mathews, Jennings and Whitty have 
been se ected. The South Australian Association 
has cabled to the Board of Control contending 
that the Chairman exceeded his powers, in can° 
celling the invitations, and urging a special meet- 
mg ot the Board of Cricket Control, at Melbourne 
with the view of securing the best team, in fair’ 
ness to their prospective opponents, and in the 
interests of Australian Cricket. 

Last Test Match. Rain fell heavily all day 
yesterday, so that no play was possible at Sydney 

sSSSr The Et Ho”' Sir 

28th February. 

House op Lords. Lord Selborne asked Lord 
Lmmott weather he could explain Mr. Harcourt’s 
statement m the House of Commons, made on 
the Joth November last, that “a governorship 
lies quite outside the ordinary course of promo- 
tiqn in the Colonial Service”. Lord Emmott 
said that he was sorry that Mr. Harcourt’s words 
had aroused such a cloud of suspicion. He deni- 
nl! Jn the i^St cate8'0lical manner that any 
change would be made, in the direction of seek- 

ColnialSServi’ce.lnStead °f the members of the 
Lord Crewe said that the Colonial Secretary 
only sought for outsiders when there was no 
suitabie person from the Colonial Service avail- 
able and did not think that those who had risen 
step by step resented the entrance into the service 
of such men as Sir Percy Girouard, and Sir F D 

thaffo W Sr iV' ^ tfaDning‘ He felt certaiu 
hat future Colonial Secretaries would make 

"O0d bwnrl°f the ?-,olinial Service understand that 
work \1 rewarded, that extra good 
wpik had a chance of being rewarded by promo- 

to the highest oflice. ^ ■ 

]Sn,tlie 1101186 of Commons at Ottawa 
di|i ng the debate on the sighting regulations at 
Hf eyA *he Master for Defence and Militia, the 
,,faam ^S1368’ said that it was 
ndt'^thL Whether a Canadian Team would com- 
decI“ed that the Canadian 
Tfim hl n/1f' He
lmd b?en s«h]ected to so much annoy- 
jf 0f Zr'i0u
s meetings owing to the opposi- 
&s Riflp kytish Rifle Manulacturers to the 
j<ss lime. The Government had offered an 
upeml Loan of 10,000 Ross Rifles, and he was 
‘ aPrised the offer had not been accepted. 
Ielbourne. Mr. Justice Higgins, Judo-e of 
le Federal Arbitration Court has delivered his 

f

1

^ar^the^U .the Tmmwaymen are entitled to 
-ar the Union Badges, when on duty The 
cent great strike in Brisbane turned on this 
ant Judge Higgins is unable to order the 
-nstatement of the men already dismissed 
, „ ?-yN- Lcird Kitchener has opened an exten- 
f n of the Khartoum Railway to Elobeid, in the 

A man has been charged at Aldershot for inci- 
ting soldiers to traitorous practices. It is alleged 
he distributed painplets calling the soldiers to 
side with the strikers, and to refuse to fire. 

Mr. Winston Churchill stated in the House of 
Commons that measures were adopted two 
months ago rendering the fleet independent of 
consequences of the coal strike, for a considerable 
time. It was, therefore, uncessary to interfere 
with the regular sea training, provided a reason- 
able economy was observed. 

The Coalowners of Scotland-and England, have 
not only agreed to a minimum wage for abnormal 
places, but as a general principle, excepting old 
men and boys, to which the miners were agree- 
able. 

In consequence the Owners have informed Mr. 
Asquith that considerable progress has been made 
towards peace. 

It is assumed that the Government will make 
a special efiort to bring in the recalcitrant spirits 
in Wales. 

The Miners, in some districts, have agreed to 
keep a sufficient staff at the mines to pump out 
the water. 

The United States. Mr. Roosevelt, in reply 
to an enquiry, says that he will accept a nomina- 
tion for the Presidentship, if it is tendered to him, 
nnd he will adhere to this decision, until the con- 
vention has expressed its preference. 

Civil Service Estimates. These show an 

increase of £1,484,663. 

New Zealand. ^ Reuter’s Agent at Wellington 
reports that the defence authorities consider that 
great enthusiasm and keeness has been shown by 
the Territorials at their annual camp, and excel- 
lent work has been done. The senior cadets 
number 38,000 and territorials 31,000. 
. Turkey and Italy. Renter’s Agent at Cons- 
tantinople reports that the Turkish Cabinet has 
decided to expel all Italians, except the Ecele- 
J siastics from the Vilayets of Beirut, Damascus, 
\ Jerusalem and Alleppo, allowing those to be ex- 

pelled, fifteen days in which to leave. 

The Vali of Beirut, telegraphing on Sunday, 
states that the total casualties are not yet com- 
plete ; aoout fifty of the Avnillah’s crew are miss- 
ing. In Beirut, over two hundred of the specta- 

the gazette 

March 4, 1912. 

March 4, 1912. 

THE GAZETTE 

presence of the leading Sheiks and other notables, 
there was a vast gathering. 

The Abmy. The Estimates show' a total 
increase of £170,000 and of 200 men due entirely 
to the growth of aviation. There has been a 
a slight improvement in recruiting. It has been 
decided to immediately establish a Joint Army 
and Navy Aviation School on Salisbury Plain. 

Pobttjgal. Mr. Harcourt announced in the 
House of Commons that Portugal had agreed to 
the Nyasaland-Beira Bailway. 

The United States. The Hon. George 
Meyer, in giving evidence before the House of 
Bepresentatives Naval Committee, urged the 
building of two battleships a year, otherwise the 
country would sink to the fifth place among the 
Naval Powers, with Japan as the third. Further 
he asked for the appropriation of a million dollars 
for the establishment of a wireless system of tele- 
graphy throughout the world, for the use of the 
American Warships. 

Colonel Boosevelt’s candidature for the Presi- 
dentship has created a sensation throughout 
America; it is almost universally denounced by 
Bepublican Newspapers, which declare that his 
dominion is out of the question, though he would 
probably succeed in splitting the Party, and in 
securing President Taft's defeat. 

Salonica. The Municipal Elections are inte- 
resting owing to the defeat of the candidates of the 
Union of Progress, and the success of the Liberal 
Union Candidates. 

House op Commons. Mr. McKenna intimated 
that the Government were prepared to grant Mr. 
Bonar Law’s request for a return showing what 
Government appointments have been made with- 
out any competitive examination. 

Italy and Tubkey. Beuter’s Agent at Borne 
telegraphs that a small steamer, carrying about 
250 tons of war material for the Turks to Tripoli, 
has been captured in Sicilian waters. 

France has issued a Communique that she is 
prepared to join in any collective action of the 
Powers in respect to either belligerent with the 
view' of ending the war. 

Cbete. The Powers have presented a Note 
stating that they are determined to maintain the 
status quo, and to take measures they may.deem 
necessary, if the Cretans persists in sending 
Deputies to the Greek Chamber, in dismissing 
Mussulman Employees, and continuing the ill 
treatment of Mohamodans. The Note conchtdes 
by stating that if the Cretans cannot 
themselves without endangering the peace of 
Europe, the Powers will take action which will 
not be conformable to the wishes of the Crehns. 
China. The Bepublican Cabinet has diseased 
the alleged ill-treatment of Chinese by the Bitch 
Authorities at Java. Sun-yat-sen is communica- 
ting with the Cabinet on the subject, and t is 
believed that stringent action will be taker by 
them, they are even considering the requisition 
of the cancellation of the Treaty with Hollaid, 
and the withdrawal of the Dutch Minister. 

Coal Strike. After the Conference on Mai- 

Owing to the expiration of their notices, a 
further 20,000 men have struck in Derbyshire, 
ignoring the appeals of their officials to remain 
at work till the end of the month. This rebel- 
lious attitude is attributed to the inflated prices 
of coal at the pit mouth, in which the men do not 
share. Twelve thousand have also struck at 
Nottingham and Westmoreland. 

It has been a day of endless conferences, and 
anxious expectation, the owners throughout the 
afternoon were at the Foreign Office, the men at 
Mr. Asquith’s house. Each side was continuous- 
ly deliberating with various members of the Gov- 
ernment till late in the afternoon. 

The Lord Mayor was suddenly summoned to 
Downing Street, while Sir Hugh Bell crossed 
over from the Foreign Office to Mr. Asquith’s, 
presumably with proposals. 

The Conference has adjourned till to-day, both 

sides maintaining secrecy. 

The latest impression is that the outlook is 
hopeful; the irreconcilability of a section of the 
Welsh Coal Owners on the minimum wage ques- 
tion, seems to be the main point at issue. 

Buenos Ayees. The Bailw ay Strike has been 
settled on the President’s proposal for the gradual 
re-admission of the strikers with a guarantee of 
fair treatment. 

Jamaica. Beuter’s Agent at Kingston tele- 
graphs that owing to the popular dissatisfaction 
with the tramway fares, rioting broke out on Fri- 
day night. The” mob attacked a policeman and 
the Jail. The Governor and his aide-de-camp 
while attempting to rescue a party of constables 
which had taken refuse in a liquor saloon, were 
assaulted by rowdies with sticks and stones. They 
escaped without serious injury. The Inspector- 
General then read the Biot Act, the Police 
charged then fired a volley, killing one ot the 
mob, fatally injuring another and wounding thirty 
more. The mob fled and order was restored. 

Last Test Matca. In fine weather, before a 
small attendance, this game was continued yes- 
day at Sydney. Australia concluded an innings 
of 176. England have made 209 for 9 wickets, 
of which Gunn contributed 61 by watchful play. 

■iOf/t February. 

Coal Strike. Mr. David A. Thomas of the 
firm of Messrs. Thomas aud Davey, the Prota- 
gonist of the Welsh Coalowners, on being inter- 
view'ed on Tuesday, regarding the Conference, 
govern i said “matters remain exactly as they were in the 
" morning, nothing has been done”. The other 
prominent people on both sides, are equally pes- 
simistic. It is now generally considered that a 
stoppage is hardly preventible. Whatever the 
result of the Conference, the Miners everywhere 
are determined to insist on the minimum wage, 
without any hampering conditions. 

The Liberal Papers continue to declare that the 
Government, as a last resource, should rush a Bill 
through establishing the minimum wage, they 
even suggest that the Government should take 
over the mines, and operate them on the minimum 

night  with Mr. Asquith, a Coalovner, m wage principle. 

day 
being interviewed, said that the situation \as 
easier, and decidedly more hopeful. 

The Owners and Miners have had separate 

The Times states that the Government had 
submitted no proposals, either to the Miners or 
the men on Tuesday, but intimated that they had 
meetings with only a partition in between. Tie devised a scheme, and had requested the Miners 
two parties exchanged friendly greetings, aid; to appoint a Committee to consider it. bubse- 
there is a more .cheerful atmosphere. Afterwads; quently the Ministers and this Committee had a 
all the delegates from the Miners’ Federaf 
>n Conference lasting three hours. The Government 
went to the Foreign Office and met Mr. Asqnth 
are finding it difficult to induce the Miners to con- 
and his Colleagues. The President and Yie- 
sider their proposals. 
President spoke on behalf of the Miners. 

The Times correspondent in South "Wales states 

that the men in this District undoubtedly want to 
figh 1, the workers can hold out longer than it is 
supposed; even if there is no strike it will be 
difficult to keep the Mines open as arranged and 
to divert the local shipping to other Ports. 

The Times further states that the Miners in 
Durham and Northumberland, are in a com- 
paratively good financial position, and very de- 
termined. 

The first rioting occurred at Chesterfield on 
'Tuesday, some miners who were proceeding to 
work, were stoned and had bottles thrown at 
them. This was quickly suppressed by the 
Police. 

Fresh Conferences were forced for last night, 
Mr. Asquith has gone to the King. In the mean- 
time, the Scottish Delegates in London have 
telegraphed to their districts for the men to lay 
down their tools to-morrow. The Welsh Engine- 
men announce that they will strike to-morrow, 
anyhow, thus rendering idle the whole coalfield. 

When Mr. Asquith returned from Buckingham 
Palace, the Miners entered Downing Street, 
while the Owners were still conferring there, soon 
both the Miners and Owners proceeded to the 
Foreign Office. 

It is understood that the English Coalowners 
in the Federated area, have agreed to accept the 
Government Scheme, including the minimum 
wage, The Northumberland and South Wales 
Owners oppose the Scheme, while the Scottish 
section is divided. 

The Miners are debating the acceptance of this 
partial settlement, while negotiations with South 
Wales, Northumberland and Scotland, continue. 
An official statement says that the Government 
are satisfied that there are cases where Miners 
cannot earn a reasonable wage, from causes they 
cannot control; that the power to secure such a| 
wage should bo secured by arrangements as to 
the suitable circumstances of each District, with 
adequate safeguards to protect the Employers 
against an abuse of this power. 

The Government further proposes that there 
should be district Conferences, between the 
Owners and the Miners, to decide on the mini- 
mum wage, a representative of the Government 
being present. Should any such Conferences 
tail, the Government representatives must decide 
jointly the outstanding points. 

A settlement last night was impossible, but the 
Miners and the Miners were in Conference till a 
late hour. 

I he Miners re-afflrm that there will be no 
settlement unless the minimum wage, at the rate 
adopted by the Miners’ Federation, is conceded. 
Therefore, they cannot arbitrate on that point, 
and decline to express an opinion on the question 
of safeguards. They are still willing to confer 
with the Owners: the Conferences will be con- 
tinued to-day. 

The Anthracite Miners in Pennsylvania, are 
demanding an eight hours day, and 20% increase 
ot wages. A strike is feared. 

Canada. Col. Sam Hughes, in addressing the 
Dominion Bifle Association, urged them to send 
a Team of Canadians to Bisley, who could return 
in the same steamer, if they were not allowed to 
use the Boss Bifie, and the Sutherland sight. 
Lord Cheylesmore on being interviewed in 
London, said it was absurd to suggest that the 
new sighting regulations were designed to handi- 
cap the Canadians, who had been given an exten- 
sion of the time to alter the sights of the Boss 
Bifle. 

Test Match. The weather was warm but 

overcast, on the third day’s play at Sydney, and 
a tair attendance witnessed the match. The 
wicket was slow but easy. England made 214 
runs, Dr., Hordern took 5 wickets for 66 runs. 
Australia in their second innings have scored 
L)d tor d wickets, Minnett not out 49 and Trum- 
per 50. Stumps were drawn early owing to bad 
light; the match will be continued.to-morrow 

The United States. The Neio York Herald’s 
correspondent at Washington, reports that the 
cruiser West Virginia” has annexed the Island 
cf Palmyra, in the middle of the Pacific which 
is claimed by Great Britain. ’ 

Mr- Knox has arrived at the Panama Canal 
Works. In his speech he said that it was the 
purpose of the United States to live in amity with 
her sister Bepublics, craving neither sovereio-ntv 
nor territory, in Latin America. ^ 
Mexico. The Bebels have captured Juarez 
the garrison offering no resistance, for fear of the 
American troops who are patrolling the frontier 
ready to enter Juarez if there is any danger-to 
Elpaso. n nu 
Beirut. The Yali reports that 41 men were 
killed rand 20 wounded on the Warships, and 56 
killed and ob wounded on the shore, in the recent 
bombardment by the Italians. * 
I ITAL7 Turkey. There was fi rffitin fi- 
lth ronghout Tuesday at Homs. The Italianlrush- 
ed the heights of Mergheb and remained in pos- 
session ot them till the evening, when the Turks 
and Arabs retired, with heavy Josses, leavino-their 
dead, and wounded on the field. There were 
many regular troops amongst these. The Italian 
casualties were 11 killed and 82 wounded 

the Army Estimates fo? the « 
to SnShe^S^S^^ deCided 

1st March. 

Duke of Fife’s Funeral. 

The service was 
held on Wednesday at St. George’s 
so,-. The,,- Majesties, the Pioncess l?oyef £ 
soi. Their Majesties, ±j-mcess j 
rmce of Wales and other Boyalties were present 
No uniforms were worn, only deep mourmim 
The Foreign Ambassadors, Lord Crewe and Sir 
Ldwaid Grey, tvith the representatives of the 

ile p'refenh011110"117’ ^ °ther Public 
JCoal Strike. Wednesday was another ^ 
o| incessant Conferences, the Government are 
lIsILw611 Utm°Sv to-,formuIate a settlement 
Hue were over a hundred thousand strikers on 
Wednesday night. There were fears of distur 
tJrheVff fc le/?d’anf’.tlle Police were conveyed 
t® .he aftected districts in motor cars. ^ 
tli p y per cen,t, of the Coalowners have accepted 
T Gr0Ve™ul,ent.s proposals and they include Lan- 
capture, Yorkshire, the Midlands, North Wales 
I u-ham and Cumberland. The dissentient!. ’ 
crthumberland, South Wales, ScSSiS 
c Dean, Somerset and Bristol. ® 
.n view cf the breakdown of the Peace neon 
uons, the action of the Government fs nmv 
£ ,erly watched for. A surprisingly larn-e per 
c -tage of the Owners are accepting the pdnc?ple 
.the minimum wage; it is expected that this 
il strengthen Government s hands, but it is nol- 
e Elected that any Legislation will be as drastic 
a aas been suggested: it will more probably be 
1 ed on the proposals made yesterday The 
c ht ot these was, that if in anvway the Onve.-V. 
i tot is of the opinion that Legislation is neces- 

■r 

G 

the gazette 

March 4,1912. 

sary, it will make the decisions of its represen- 
tatives at the suggested district conferences 
compulsory. . 

A Section of of the Owners, for instance Dur- 
ham, has accepted the Government proposals 
on the grounds that it 'will be a national dis- 
aster if there is a strike, but the Welshmen are 
adamant. Mr. Thomas, on being interviewed 
again yesterday, said we wall resist the Govern- 
ment proposals to the end, rather submit to 
compulsion than accept them voluntarily. The 
Miners are determined to remain solid and are 
confident of obtaining not only the principle of but 
a specific minimum wage. 

One hundred and fifteen thousand Miners struck 
on Wednesday; they generally are displaying a 
holiday spirit, and there is an absence of the 
ill feeling of previous combats. 

The leaders in Derbyshire have issued a mani- 
festo reprobating the outbreak at Cherterfield on 
the 2Sth instant. 

A special Cabinet Council bas_ been called. 
Conferences took place at the Foreign Office and 
in No. 10 Downing Street between the Govern- 
ment and the Committees of the Owners and 
Miners. 

It is estimated that there already over 250,000 

workers under notice. 

It is understood that Mr. Asquith has submitted 
fresh proposals to the Owners, and the negotia- 
tions are taking a new turn, they are to be con- 
tinued to-day. 

The position last night was more hopeful as it 
was expected that the minimum wage would be 
obtained and the Miners concede safeguards re- 
garding a minimum output. 

An official statement has been made to the 
effect that the Northumberland Coalowners have 
agreed to the principle of the minimum wage, 
but they cannot assent to it irrespective of the 
ability and willingness of the workers. 

Mr. Asquith in addressing the National Miners’ 
Conference, expatiated on the necessity and im- 
portance of the Coal Industry being carried on 
under proper conditions. The Government having 
recognised the principle of the minimum wage, 
if it wras not secured by agreement it would be 
secured by the Government by other means. He 
emphatically declared that it was the Govern- 
ment’s duty to do what it could to effect a reason- 
able settlement. 

The Government considered the matter with- 
out any class or party bias, and it did not inteid 
that what it believed to be a dwindling minor.ty 
of the employers should unduly delay the attan- 
ment of this object, which he believed the mimrs 
had properly submitted to them. 

The Premier then made an appeal to he 
Miners to allow a reasonable latitude in the ds- 
cussion with regard to rates for particular w;ok, 
a terrible responsibility would rest on the shoud- 
ers of those who hindered in the achievement of 
a result so nearly within reach of attainment. 

House cf Commons. The House has adoptd 
by 226 to 128 votes a private motion urging it:o 
grant Home-Rule to Scotland, following Irih 
Home Rule. 

United States. The House of Represem- 
tives Ways and Means Committee have agreed o 
a revision of the Sugar Bill reducing the taiff 
one cent per pound. 

The Naval Committee has decided in favounf 

laying down two Battleships in 1912. 

The Commander of the “West Virginia” j- 
ports to the State Department that he found li- 
my ra Island on the 28th February, uninhabi-d 

with no indication that any Nation had ever 
attempted to assert its sovereignty over the place. 
The report of the Accountant who examined 
the books of the Steel Trust mentions ihat 
Messrs. Pierpont Morgan & Co., made a profit 
of £13,800,000 in financing the Trust. 

Turkey. It is estimated that over six thou- 
sand persons are affected by the Anti-Italian 
explosion decree, in Palestine, including many 
persons employed on the Baghdad Railway, at 
Aleppo. 

Italy and Turkey. Russia has fresh proposals 
to make with regard to mediation between Italy 
and Turkey. She proposes to ask Italy on what 
terms she will conclude Peace, on the basis of an 
Italian sovereignty over Tripoli; afterwards five 
of the Powers approach Turkey. 

In Constantinople there is very little faith in 
the efficacy of the Russian initiative, the adoption 
of the Annexation Bill by the Italian Parliament 
is regarded as an insurmountable obstacle to an 
understanding. 

China. The Anglo-American and Franco-Ger- 
man Bankers will advance five million Taels to 
the Republican Authorities to pay the troops. 
A large loan will be contracted for immediately. 

A Coalition Cabinet has been formed. It is 
understood that Russia and Japan will partici- 
pate in the Loan to China. 

Lisbon. The Portuguese Gunboat “Faro” 
collided with a tug off Alver, and sunk it; six were 
drowned, including the Commander and the 
Second Officer, the rest were rescued with diffi- 
culty. 

Australian Cricket. D. Smith replaces 
Clem Hill in the Team for the triangular contests. 
Test Match. Rain at Sydney stopped all 

play for the day. 
Obituary. Storer, the Derbyshire wicket- 
keeper, w7ho also had played for the Australians. 

2 «r? March. 

Army Appointments. Captain Hankey of the 
Marine Artillery is appointed Secretary of the 
Committee of Imperial Defence in succession to 
Real-Admiral Ottley, who has resigned. 

Canada. The Senate by 01 to 2 votes defeated 
the Bill to repeal the Naval Act, which a Liberal had 
introduced with the view of forcing the hand of 
Government. 

House of Commons. Mr. Harold Baker’s Bill 
for the abolition of Plural voting was read a 
second time by 223 to 142 votes. The Govern- 
ment declined at this stage to say whether they 
would adopt the Bill. 

Aden. Owing to the report of the advance of 
the Mullah, 335 men of the 18th Indian Infan- 
try, with 9 Officers, have sailed for Berbera, 

Coal Strike. The Cabinet sat for over two 
hours, then the Government met the Miners for an 
hour. Several of the Owners have already left 
London, and the majority leave to-night. Every- 
thing is quiet in the strike districts. Eight 
hundred thousand men are alrealy out. 

The seriousness of the position is already begin- 
ning to be felt disagreeably. A number of works 
in Sheffield, and elsewhere are closed. The Rail- 
ways are arranging for a reduction of their services 
everywhere. Employers are giving their employees 
notice. The Railways are swearing in their em- 
ployees as special constables. The South Wales 
Railwaymen have passed a resolution not to handle 
the troop trains. 

It is recognised that Mr. Asquith’s speech has 
given a new turn to the negotiations, but opinions 
vary as to whether a speedy settlement will ensue. 

T

have 

s tearedV : 

victory and will return to work af ter a brief holidav F • -borei^ers to then _ga 
confiding in Mr. Asquith's integrity. Othe^pidicM 110 ^ WaS Mt 
Papers share the views of most of the Conservative hi-,^ at„ Peklng reports that the 
yesterday 
minimum wage, with a minimum at the Collieries ipu mi 'S “ the Voters :   
been executed 
winch it is understood will be introduced on the 4th matedatB 000 oX I7 rP t0 ^ Vvesent are esti- 
March. will not have a, smnnt.li I mate_d at ffi000,°00 sterling. The Loyalists were 
March, will not have a smooth passage thronffii ^ “ at SdlOO OOO sterling. The Loyalists were 
House of Commons, owing to appreSionTnot cmi! waSrl f6 StreStS laSt night’ when fresh trouble 
fined to the Conservative Benches, that the concession Wa
will provoke an agitation in favour of a minimum 
wage on other trades. ' * 
It is pointed oiit that the Miners Federation on 
Unirsday adhered to their demands of tlie 2ud 
February, hence the Conservatives argue that an 
attempt to enforce by legislation a compromise on the 
Australian Cricket. Mr. Crouch has been 
offers which have been rejected, but accepted bv the Australian Cricket. Mr. Crouch has been 
ft* Of mo 0«m,k„„ld U fS? J 1 ” p-m to go to Eogtad •• 
It is stated that the Labour Party intend to intro- which maw ^ afc Melbourne, at 
•duee a Bill embodying these demands of the 2nd lutiL of infficmatioVft0?!111611^•Pe°P ? paSSed a res°- 
February, thus adding a complication to the debates Cnntml wTf r V ^ aftlou ot tlle Board of 
m the House of Commons. & ^ ™ oI’ f°r excllMmg 6 of the best' cricketers from 
eaw t0 C0Iltesfc fclle triangular matches Mr 
next week. The Miners afiS tlS S that “ “Ration shoffid 
cannot be arrested within a foidnight Thel A Coit/ prevenUhe Board sending aTeam 
strikers now numbering 1,065,000, are enjoyiJg\ Committees C0'0Berate with Bm 
holiday, holding sports and entertainments Twi 5 T3 ?thf ’ttates- 

I • ^ ^ officially reported that in the fio-ht- 
mg at Margheb on the 28th February, 5 000 Turks 
isestimated that they 
lost 500 killed and wouded m the attempt to re- 
capture the heights. The Italian losses were 14 
| killed and 100 wounded. ■ 

All the negotiations have been snsnended HU mu 7

Asquith announced in the House of Com-|Tei Match, by 70 ran?. The weathS was If 

and Scottish Owners declined on the ground that 
they were bound by the existing agreements 

Minnett contributed 61. 

Obituary. Mr. George Grossmith, senio 

OFFICIAL 

The representatives of the Miners Federation 
have rejected the Government proposals, and are 
not willing to submit the Federation’s, rates and 
the minimum wage to any form of revision Mr 
Asquith consequently felt that no useful purpose 
could be served by at present continuing the 
conference He hoped to make a further stnt.A. 
ment on Monday. I „   — 
The Suffragettes. These misguided women I „i, " 7 ‘ Sultan has been gracionslv 
have started a Window Smashing Compaign over P[eased> on the recommendation of his lUW 
a large area, from Oxford Street to the Strand, Minister and with the assent of H IF 4 f 
also they have been performing on th* winUnn-J and ConsuLr!-^-,™.,.! . g FL M. Agent 
of the Gov< 
been made. ~   I '11S(F fi"11- L>. the dccorat: 
New Zealand. Parliament lias been pimogued Lcdmifchm of l °n the Brilliaut Star in 
oil June on a motion of want of confidence, the mJU, Tj.n valuable services rendered bv 
Goveriitment was defeated by 40 to 38 votes. Sir ) J° J:lls Highness’ Government 5 'y 
Joseph Ward retires, and the Ministry will bere- 
• constructed. 

ANNOUNCEMENTS. 

F. E. BAR TOE, 

The Morning Leader states that the Govern-, 

ment intend to introduce a Bill taking over certain „ 
mines for the use of the Navy. Fir 5" Minister’! 

,   _'s Office, 
Aaazibar, 4th March, 1912 

First Minister. 

China. Reuter’s Agent at Peking telegraphs 
that some hundred of Yuan-shi-kai’sC men have 
noted, and set fire to and wrecked several houses. 
Indiscriminate shooting is going on, and thousands 
■ ol soldiers are trying to restore order. 

NOTICE. 

Reutei s Agent at Peking reports that being i unuer 

■le undermentioned lots of Cloves and 
dissatisfied with the non receipt of their pay, two Clc Vs-Stems were qnlrl ™ m ^   
ps-Stems were sold on the Custom 
thousand of 1 uan-shi-kai’s men started looting the Ho ie premises FhG hm i , Jhe Gu^om 
capital yesterday morning, hordes of coolies and L , : T
P Ses tlns 4fcJl of March, 1912 
0 premises th^ 4th day of March, m? 
loafers swelled the ranks of the soldiers to five '   ■ 
Description Weight frasiks Bate per fas] 
thousand, and the orgie of destruction only ceased 
with the exhaustion of the looters early in the morn- 
ing of the 1st instant, when seven incendiary fires 
weie burning over a large area of the various quart- 
■ ers of the Town. It was a grim spectacle, the crang 
• of mutineers in the glare of the flames battering in 
the shops, shooting and bayoneting the shopkeepers 
for not promptly handing over their valuables, 
and then staggering oft’ with their loot. In strono- 
■contrast were the detachments of Foreign Troops 

Es. A. 
9 10 
9 10 
9 15 
9 15 
9 15 
8 7 
2 15 

Pemba Cloves 
Zanzibar Cloves 

Lot 
I Nos 
1 
2 
1 
2 
3 
4 

500 
525 
300 
500 
500 
140 
1800 

w. B. SWINERD, 

Stems 

}> 
> 

Chief of Customs. 

THE GAZETTE 

March 4,1S12. 

March 4, 1912. 

THE GAZETTE 

Bf— 

1 

L» Ulj 4i 1 a5 L-».a j j 

^ 1a j) 1Is lA_y ^ 
ATaUia l J liUj (j 

Y k.—-(jajU n Jc* 

k—““ tJjJjy* YA 

1) 

J. E. R. STEPHENS,. 

IN H. H’s. COURT FOR ZANZIBAR AND 

PEMBA. 

Probate and Administration Case No. 126 of 1911. 
Administration of estate of Mohamed bin 

Abdallah Abdesallam 

Be it known, that on the 26th day of February,. 
1912, letters of Administration with will attached 
of all and singular the estate and effects of late 
Mohamed Abdallaih bin Abdesallam deceased, were 
granted by H. H’s. Court for Zanzibar andPemba 
to Mr. Bernard Jas. Souza, the Probate Clerk, he 
having undertaken well and faithfully to administer 
the same by paying the just debts of the said 
deceased and distributing the residue thereof 
according to law, and to exhibit a true and perfect 
inventory of all and singular the said estate and 
effects, and to render a just and true account 
thereof whenever required by law so to do. 

All creditors and others bavin" claims upon 
the estate of the above-named deceased, are 
required to send in writing the particulars of 
their debts, claims or demands to the aforesaid 
executors on or before the 30th day of May 1912.. 
HAYTHORNE REED., 

Magistrate. 

Chake-Chake, 26th February, 1912. 

N^lALJaLJI Sj) ji-l. 5 ^ • jA 

k—- 
cS W" 1^ O iTjdl aj IaI 4] 1£j 
A-c jji au I A«fr jji A^- tiM LA I ASy jJl J 111 
0^ J’ y» 4_3cSLS^ lS (J jd I. 
Ij JkJ. 4J UaLJI JsJlj J LjjfJ aS^- Ij^Le. | Ai 
o A A Ai_ 01 4 L A_S 4_i I J,>V 

^ ^^ o I j o L-u N j (JaJL 4_5jlJI 
4*i •—*>■>* (J6’ ti Ul jv-ui >LaI> “Lc. 4ik)l4j A 
<J l< I—41 L j>-j 4_$jJI o LA5^y*y. * jl« 
(j A^aJI _j (jps! L 4_5jill « Aa k_j L^. y l O Ij (ji A^JIj 
ll_A (_J IL JTj 4<u j-ll l kill A 41—* Aijl Ja 
4__i a j 4i>. j*_>. 4! U (j (jj*. 4! v • jaj HI LA I 
r- CJ. j^lj^All jfj IA a. Jl 4)1^01 

HIY 41—Y1 <aL5L. 

mr <—-1/- 

HAYTHORNE REED. 

^ * L^’i/1) 
1,.. ..J 
- * * -r 

8 

NOTICE. 

The next auction sale of Cloves and 
Cloves-Stems will be held on the Custom 
House premises on Monday f 1th March, 
1912, at 10.50 a. m., under the usual 
conditions. 

W. B. SWINBRD, 

Chief of Customs. 

Zanzibar, 4th March, 1912. 

* •'H <H 3. 

cU° t'l.Hl flil yHRHt 

loll cu3l 'H'tV»l ^ ■S{£\& 

C-flsu<r«fl q’aiusi <Rcll 

W. B. SWINERD, 

S^i’Ml =4151. 

Clio V 41 ViRZl, 

NOTICE. 

TENDER No. 8 of 1912. 

Kilimani Prison Blocks B. C. & F. 

Tenders are invited for the above work. 
Drawings can be seen and copies of the 
specifications, quantities, conditions and 
forms of contract can be obtained from my 
Office. - t- 

Sealed tenders should be delivered at the 
Treasury Office not later than noon on 
Monday, the 11th March, 1912. 

A. E, GALBRAITH, 
Director of Public Works. 

Zanzibar, 1st March, 1912. 

IN THE COURT FOR ZANZIBAR AND 

PEMBA. 

Probate and Administration Cause No. 28 of 1912. 
Notice of application for administration of the 
estate of Mohamed bin Said Marahubi lati of 
Yuga deceased. 

Take notice, that application having been nade 
in this Court by Abdullah and Masood bin 
Mohamed bin Said Marahubi, Sons of decesed 
for the administration of the estate of Mobaued 
bin Said Marahubi late of Yuga, Zanzibar ffjwn 
deceased, the Town Magistrate will procee to 
make a decree in the same unless cause be sbwn 
to the contrary and appearance in this resect 
entered on or before the 31st day of March, M2 

J. E. R. STEPHEN, 

Magistrate, Zanziar 

Zanzibar, 2Sth February, 1912. 

^ L) ^—LLJ, 11 o j j lA—SCs- s^» 

^ orju’ujW 

‘iNy* SjIaI j> aUs 1 (3 iJ ^,c- 

j ^ j* ^ 11—^j) A-jt*. v * ji 
X-£ 

« as! 

V_A» IjIlfU 

^ I SjIa! k—(3 5J$s_3e1 1 oA. (_j" 

IN H. B. M. COURT FOR ZANZIBAR. 

Probate and Administration Cause No. 8 of 1912. 

Notice of issue of letters of the administration 

of the estate of late Tayabbhai Alibhai Karimji. 

Pursuant to an order of H. B. M. Court at 
Zanzibar granting letters of administration in the 
estate of late Tayabbhai Alibhai Karimji deceased 
who died at Zanzibar on the 2nd day of January, 
1912, all creditors and others having claims upon 
the estate of the above-named deceased are 
required to send in writing the particulars of their 
debts, claims or demands to Abas Tayabbhai and 
Badroodin layabbhai who have been appointed 
administrators respectively on or before the 29th 
day of August 1912. 

J. W. MURISON, 

Ag. Judge. 

H. B. M. Court. 

Zanzibar, 27th February, 1912. 

IN H. B. M. COURT FOR ZANZIBAR. 

Baxkedptcy Jurisdiction. 

Case No. 22 of 1911. 

Re Kassam Nanji lAia,n\.—Bankrupt. 
The Official Receiver versus Jaffer Hamir. 
Air. Framji for the Official Receiver and Mr. 
Mead for Jaffer Hamir. 
Order This is an application by the Official 
Receiver in the Bankruptcy Case Re Kassam 
Nanji Miani and Co., for a declaration that the 
payment of the two sums of Rs. 1,900 and 
Rs. 1,000 respectively made by Gulamhnsem 
Kassam, manager of the bankrupt’s firm, to one 
Jaffer Hamir on the 20th and 21st June 1911 
constituted a fraudulent preference. 

It appears from the evidence that one Kassam 
Nanji Miani had for some years before his bank- 
ruptcy been carrying on business as a merchant 
in Bombay, Zanzibar, and other places. Gulam- 
husein Kassam was the manager of the firm in 
Zanzibar. 

Upon the 20th June 1911 the firm stopped pay- 
ment in Bombay; and on the 23rd June 1911 the 
High Court of Bombay, on a creditor’s petition, 
adjudicated the firm bankrupt. On the 25th 
August 1911 a receiving order was made against 
the firm in Zanzibar. 

Now some time previously to the adjudication 
order in Bombay Jaffer Hamir, against cash paid 
to Gulamhusein Kassam in Zanzibar, drew (inter 
alia) five hundis upon the firm's Bombay branch. 
They were for Rs. 83-9, Rs. 200, Rs. 500, Rs. 1,500 
and Rs. 2,500. The first three were dated 3rd 
-June 1911 and were payable on demand in 
Bombay. The last two were dated respectively 
the 7th and 8th June 1911 and were payable res- 
pectively on the 6th and 7th July 1911 in Bom- 
bay in favour of Premji Jaffer and Haji Lalji & 
•Co. 

It is clear that the stoppage of payment by the 
bankrupt’s firm in Bombay on 20th June 1911 
was known all over Zanzibar that same evening. 
A number of Zanzibar creditors thereupon tried 
to get payment from the firm’s manager in Zan- 
zibar. He meanwhile had received a wire from 
the Bombay firm on the 20th June to the effect 
that the firm had stopped payment. He, received 
that wire on the morning of the 2ist. He how- 
ever, denied knowledge of the exact position of 
the firm in Bombay and at first refused to pay 

the creditors here. One creditor, Ismailji Amiji 
who asked payment of a dishonoured draft, was 
refused upon the ground that he could not produce 
Ins dishonoured draft. 

Among the creditors who pressed for payment 
was the respondent Jaffer Hamir. It appears 
that lie went to the manager in the evening of 
the 20th and asked for payment of the five drafts 
which he stated had been dishonoured in Bombay. 
Ij thmf'terL? le8‘al proceedings if he was not 
paid, I he Manager told him to come later and 
he came again at 7-30 p.m., when the manager 
gave him a hawala for Rs. 1,000 and told him to 
come agam. Jaffer Hamir came the next day 
and at 4 p.m The manager gave him another 
hajala for Rs. 90°. These two hawalas were 
abdut halt the amount due, and were given bv 
thd manager to keep Jaffer Hamir quilt till he 
/et rel’able information as to che position 
ot the farm. There is some discrepancy as to the 
exact time of the payment of the hawalas, but I 
acfcept Jaffer Hamir’s own evidence which is to 
tip effect stated above. 

Of the other creditors who applied for payment 
me were successful and others were not. Most 
the cash in hand seemed to have been paid to 
Jetha Lilia. Remtulla was refused payment on 
th| morning of 21st June, but Jaffer Hamir was 
pap the same day at 4 p. m. Ismailji Amiji was 
used because he could not produce the dis- 
hojoured drafts; but Jaffer Hamir, who equally 
f° dlshonoure<3 drafts, (the last two 
ms,act had not even matured) was partially paid 
“e. e!ld the manager received from the 
Offda Assignee at Bombay a telegram savino- 
1 mG„firm had ,)een adjudicated bankrapt 
it telegiam was received on June 28th fiL 
daL after the adjudication order. The manager 

pl'Kw5*1 ““ ‘i001'S in ,n<l stop. 

toR'aner 11 amir were, in the 
ft mulent preference, 

” ?o‘.‘h8se w»— 
circumstances, a 
ytion 48 of the Bankruptcy Act is as follows-- 
i „  ui. orausier or DroDerrv 
1(0 S“J»ney“A1” o' 
e’ ry oblioSion0n- eVery ^“ent made! 
^ j' t>6jtion incurred, and everv indipin 1 
al fto1 m.vta£;n n°„L!Uffe!;ed h7 aiU Pqraon un- 
a»Mo pay his debts as^theylbecom^diie^rom 
•oT in“w7 ? faV°lU- of“y creditor,^br any 
y m ,trust for any creditor, with a view of 
fors shallrifdH°r a Prefere°ce over the other 
pttors, snail, it the person makino* takino- nnv 
a unSuntcT th?>Same is adiud^d’ bankrupt on 
n )ths T£ythP ! f°n feSf?ted three 
)tns after the date ot making, taking navino- 
v hatSnst th'T6’ !'e ^"dSent and 
V ibis section shall not affect the rights of 
v iibffic0n makl?g tiue in 80°d faith and for- 
o !?b,Stopt ^lcou§k or ander a creditor 
-being proved that the firm were insolvent nf- 
t gme that the payments to Jaffer Hamir were 

tbe trastee in the bankruptcy. 

L shoTk?, r* *“ •»->f-fcS* 
v j . Hat the payments were not made 
c tor, ip of Prafemng Jaffer Hamir to other 
I ike 190M ft b” 710)°' 1837 2 <*■ R 16 “d 
n ■mo-fitl^+endeaV0Uk t0 dlscharge this onus by 
P mg that payment was made under pressure 
,n Vlew of the threat of Jaffer Hamir to brim" 
r
ipre -gs- The payment however was 
1 LvhJht mafger knew that the firm in 
4 *ay had stopped payment. It has not been 
or even contended, that the Zanzibar 

10 

THE GAZETTE 

March 4, 19] 2. 

assets were sufficient to save the Bombay firm: 
in fact the event has proved the contrary. The 
manager must therefore, I think, be taken to have 
known, at the time he made the payments to 
Jaffer Hamir, that the Zanzibar branch must 
shortly go bankrupt. In these circumstances a 
threat of proceedings against him, was, from the 
point of view of pressure, more of a sham than a 
reality. I would refer in this connexion to the 
remarks of Jessel M. B. in e® parie Hall (1882) 
19 C. D. at pp. 583-4 “The pressure must be a 
“real bona fide pressure. Here it was all a sham. 
“What pressure can be produced on a man who 
“is going to become bankrupt in a week by'-j'our 
“telling him you will bring an action against 
“him? It might be different if the creditor did 
“not know the state of his affairs”. 

There are some further considerations. Some 
of the bills, the two for Bs. 1,500 and Bs. 2.500 
were 15 and 16 days short of maturity on the 
20th June 1911, and the first three dishonoured 
bills had not been returned to Zanzibar. In tire 
face of this it is difficult to see how the firm can 
contend, as they do contend, that the payment? 
were made in the ordinary course of business o: 
merely to keep their business _ going. Further 
■where two creditors ask in Zanzibar for payments 
of hundis dishonoured in Bombay and the Zanzibar 
mahager pays one and not the other, it world 
appear in the absence of any real pressure brought 
to bear by either of them that the manager hid 
not only preferred one creditor to the other bit 
had been guilty of fraud in exercising the pn- 
ference. 

The suggestion of fraud is further emphasizid 
by the fact (disclosed in the evidence) that whin 
the Official Beceiver’s clerk came to go thrpudi 
the papers of the firm in Zanzibar the telegran 
from the Bombay firm announcing that they h.d 
stopped payment was not to be found althouh 
the file of telegrams was apparently otherwise con- 
plete. The manager did not know where it ws; 
it might, he said, have fallen out of a pockt. 
The original is still missing but a certified coy 
of the telegram was provided by the Easton 
Telegraph Co. upon an order from the Court. 

In my opinion the evidence shows that te 
firm by its manager not only preferred Jafr 
Hamir to other creditors, but fraudulently did s. 
The respondent must rejiay the amount to ie 
Official Beceiver, and prove in the ordinary vy 
for any claim he has against the bankrupt’s flu. 
The costs of this application will be taxed cd 

paid out of the Bankrupt’s estate. 

J. W. MUBISON 

Ag. Judge, 

H. B. M. Court 

Zanzibar, 22nd February, 1912. 

IN H. B. M. COUBT FOE ZANZIBA1 

Crimikal Case No. 128 of 1912. 

H. H. Police Prosecut 
(1) Ali Jessa, Manager of Messrs. A. M. 
Jiwanji & Co. (2) Peter de Costa and 
(3) Cosme de Souza tally clerks to Messrs. 
Smith Mackenzie & Co Accu',. 
Mr. Mead for Prosecution. 
Mr. Framji for Accused No. 1. 
Mr. Lascari for Accused No. 2 & 3. 

JUDGMENT. 

This was a prosecution instituted by the Poi 
under Section 21 (b) of the Customs Decree It 
against the three defendants (1) Ali Jessa, (2) Pc 

de Costa and (3) Cosme de Souza for contravening 
Begulations 43 of the Customs Begulations made 
under the Decree of 1911. The first defendant 
Ali Jessa is the Manager or chief clerk in the 
offices of Messrs A. M. Jiwanji & Co., who are the 
agents for the Clan Ellerman and Harrison Lines 
Joint Service at Zanzibar. The other two 
defendants Peter de Costa and Cosme de Souza 
are tally clerks in the employ of Messrs. Smith 
Mackenzie & Co., the landing agents in Zanzibar 
for the Clan Ellerman and Harrison Lines. 
According to Ali Jessa’s statement it is by virtue 
of a contract made between Messrs. A. M. Jiwanji 
& Co., and Messrs. Smith Mackenzie & Co., that 
the latter agreed inter alia to act as landing agents 
in Zanzibar for the aforesaid lines. As such landing 
agents they are to discharge cargo, land and deliver 
the same to consignees and to provide tally clerks 
on the ships at their expense and to pass a 
receipt to the steamers for the cargo and to obtain 
receipts from the consignees. 

As regards the first defendant Ali Jessa, no 
evidence was produced as to the terms on which 
the acids in question were shipped, or as to the- 
terms of the contract between Messrs. Jiwanji 
(fc Co., and . Messrs. Smith Mackenzie & Co., by 
which the latter agreed to act as landing agents 
for the Clan Ellerman and Harrison Lines, beyond 
■what is contained in the statement written by 
Ali Jessa and handed in by Mr. Framji. The 
discharge of the cargo is generally the joint act 
of the shipowner and the merchant freighter, the 
latter beginning his part when the cargo is brought 
to the rail of the ship. (Dick v. Badart 1883,10 
Q. B. D. 387). The general rule, however may be 
altered by agreement of the parties, or custom of 
the port of discharge. (Per Lord Esher M. B. in 
Budgett v. Binnington 1891, 1 Q. B. at p. 38). 
Although the shipowner undertakes by his contract 
to deliver the goods to certain indicated persons, 
yet personal delivery may sometimes be excused 
by an established course of business at the port. 
A delivery to certain other persons may, by virtue 
of the custom, be equivalent to the consignee 
himself. In Grange c. Taylor (1904, 20 Times 
Law- Beports 386) it appeared that the practice 
was for the servants of the Dock Company to 
bring the grain in the ship's hold under the 
hatchway, whence it was lifted by elevator 
and shot into barges, or put on the quay. 
The shipowner paid the Dock Company for the 
work in the hold, and the consignee paid them 
for the other work. The elevator belonged to 
independent persons who were paid by the Dock 
Company as agents for the consignee, and it 
was held that it discharged the shipowner. 
The manner of delivering the goods and con- 
sequently the period at which the respon- 
sibility of the master and owners will cease, 
depends upon the custom of particular places and 
the usage of the particular trades (See Budgett 
v. Binnington 1891, 1 Q.B. at p. 38). Now I am 
not told what were the terms of the bill of lading 
under which this acid was shipped. Was the 
shipowner’s liability to cease when the acids were 
delivered over the ship’s rail, or was the shipowner 
by his bill of lading bound to land the goods? If 
the shipowner’s liability ceased at the ship’s rail, 
then neither Messrs. Jiwanji & Co., nor their clerk 
were responsible for the landing of these acids. 
If on the other hand the shipowner undertook to 
actually land the goods, then I consider that 
Messrs. Jiwanji & Co., and their clerk Ali Jessa 
must be held responsible. As I have no information 
on this point I must acquit the defendant Ali 
Jessa of all liability for the landing of these acids 

March 4, 1912. 

THE GAZETTE 

without having first obtained the sanction of the 
Customs Authorities. 

As regards the defendant Cosme de Souza the 
position is altogether different. He is a clerk in the 
firm of Messrs. Smith Mackenzie & Co., the land- 
ing agents. According to the evidence of Bichard 
Percy Galer, 2nd Officer of the S. S. “Clan 
Menzies” there were two tally clerks belonoffia 
to Smith Mackenzie & Co. on board, but he dkf no'll 
know their names. He said that only one tally 
clerk C. de Souza signed the receipt of cargo, 
and it was only necessary for one to do so. He 
signed in three places on sheet No. 16 produced 
in evidence. There were 15 cases of acids there, 
and according to the evidence of the ship’s officer 
the tally clerk was fully cognisant of the fact 
that these cases contained acids: as each case was 
plainly marked and he also informed him. And 
on the receipt of 15 casses of acids the tally clerk 
put his signature. Of this acid several cases 
were leaking, it was deck cargo, and is so entered 
on the back of the receipt, and the tally clerk 
signed it, and he knew it was leaking. Cosme de 
Souza in the statement handed in by his counsel 
Mr. Lascari says:— “As different cases of the 
cargo were being discharged into the lighter as 
usual I took note of _ the numbers of bales or 
cases with the manes on them, on a piece of 
paper, from which on my return to the office, I 
copied the list in the book I produce. Neither the 
2nd officer nor anyone else intimated to me the 
nature of the contents of the 15 cases which are 
alleged to contain acids. After the cases were put 
on board the lighter I took no part in the landing 
■of the cases.” 

I cannot accept the statement of Cosme de 
Souza that he was not aware that these cases 
contained acids. Acids are not like other goods; 
they are carried in special receptacles, and as 
deck cargo, and not placed amongst the other 
cargo, and the cases were plainly marked. I can 
quite understand that in the hurry and turmoil 
■of unloading a tally clerk might fail to notice the 
nature of each package as it came up out of the 
hold, but these acids were in a different category 
from the other cargo, they were deck cargo, in 
plainly marked receptacles, and as such they 
always receive special handling because of their 
dangerous nature. But it seems immaterial 
whether the defendant did or did not know that 
these cases contained acids, there was nothing to 
prevent him knowing and he certainly signed the 
receipt book on p. 16 in three places, and therefore, 
must be held responsible. "What I think the more, 
probable story is that the defendant C. de Souza 
knew that the receptacles contained acids, but 
was not aware of the Decree of October 1911 
prohibiting the landing of acids without first 
having obtained the permit of the Customs 
Authorities. It was a new Decree, and had only 
been in force since October, and the defendant 
had only been employed by Messrs. Smith 
Mackenzie & Co. since November. 

Mr. Lascari on behalf of the defendant Cosme 
•de Souza pointed out that Section 21 (b) says 
“knowingly contravenes”, and argued that if the 
defendant was not aware that these cases contained 
acids, he could not be convicted of “knowingly 
contravening” the Begulations. That position 
seems to me to be untenable, because it would be 
•absolutely impossible to hold a person liable for 
anything if he has the opportunity of knowing a 
thing and does not take the trouble to avail himself 
these 
of that opportunity. Now suppose that 
disguised as 
acids had been put in some box and ui&y 
marks indicating 
•ordinary cargo either with no 

11 

L

t rat the box contained acids, or described as 
s ime other goods, then if the defendant had 
; llowed them to be landed, he could not in my 
c pinion have been convicted under this section of 
‘knowingly contravening” the Begulations. It 
i -as necessary that this prosecution should be 
i istituted by the Customs Authorities, in order 
to bring to the notice of shipping agents this 
Decree It is not necessary in the present case nor 
< o the Police press for a heavy fine to be inflicted. 
• small fine will meet justice of the case. As" 
i igards the other defendant Peter de Costa, no 
e ndence has been produced to show that he had 
a lythmg to do with the landing of this acid 
a id therefore the case against him is dismissed 
] etore concluding this judgment I might point 
( it that in my opinion Messrs. Smith Mackenzie 
1 °0-- should also have been made defendants I 
1 ave not been able to consult all the authorities’ I 
u Li ,ve
Ilke<?l, to do because they are not 
ailable, but I will refer to one authority that of 
e Queen «. Stephens (1886 L. B. 1 Q. B. 702) 
n that case it was held by three Judges .that the 
iwner of works, carried on for his profit bv his 
gents, is liable to be indicted for a public 
itusance, caused by acts of his workmen in 
tarrying on the works, though done without his 
knowledge and contrary to his general orders 
(.Ins was an indictment for obstructing the 
javigation of a public river by throwing rubbish 
jto it. Mr. Justice Mellor with whom Mr. Justice 
hee and Mr. Justice Blackburn concurred said-  
The object of this indictment is to prevent the 
Ecurrence of the nuisance. The prosecutor cannot 
loceed by action, but must proceed by indictment 
nd it this were strictly a criminal prosecution' 
ould be met with the objection that, there was 
o mens rea ; that the indictment charged the 
Mendant with a criminal offence, when in reality 
ere was no proof that the defendant knew of 
lie act, or that he himself gave orders to hie; 
(ven, stilt at the same time it is npr+'pntm „i& 
ffstilfatth16 Parti
M the Mentat fi„as the capi 
>- the business which causes the nuisance and 
tis carried on for bis benefit; although from ace 

CUlar acfcheis barged 

+

^thpT17- he 1S- Unable t0 g0 t0 the pa'etffises 
the business is carried on for him by his sons’ 
fiat all events by his agents.. Under these 
jcumstances the defendant must necessarily 
It LMcklent'to^h °r ag-ntS a11 the ™tbority 
wit is incident to the carrying on or the business^ 
is not because he had at some time or other 
en directions that it should be carried on so as 
:J all«w the refuse from the works to fall into 
* mer, and desired bis servantsto provide some 
5en iSaCfi f0i; dep0S1‘ing ifc’ that when it has 
■Ih^ t irhewVer,and has become prejudicial 
pubhc.he can say he is not liable on an 
ictment lor a nuisance caused by the acts of 
□ servants. It appears to me all it was necessary 
rove is, that the nuisance was caused in the 

frying on of the works of the quarry.”. 

SENTENCE. 

therefore fine the defendant Cosme de Souza 
Bm rupees of which five rupees are to be paid 
he Customs for the damages done anrl 
I’ees to the Court fund. The case Loh, 
ha and Peter de Costa is dismissed. & A 1- 

J. E. B STEPHENS. 

anzibar, 23rd February, 1912. 

Magistrate. 

12 

the gazette 

March 4, 1912. 

would certainly receive a warm welcome from the 
many friends he has made, not only officially but 
socially, during bis residence in the Island. 

 :o:  

By me, Edward Clarke, Esquire, His 
Britannic Majesty’s Diplomatic Agent and 
Consul-General for Zanzibar, residing at 
Zanzibar. 

Be it known to all to whom these presents 
shall come that, by virtue of the powers 
vested in me by His Majesty’s Commission, 
I do hereby constitute and appoint Sydney 
Entwisle Kay, Esquire, to be British \ ice- 
Consul for Zanzibar with full power and 
authority, by all lawful means, to aid and 
protect His Majesty’s subjects trading in, 
visiting, or residing in his district. 

Witness my hand and seal of Office it 
Zanzibar, this. Twenty Sixth day of Feb- 
ruary, 1912. 

EDWARD CLARKE, 

H. M’s. Diplomatic Agent & Consul- 

General. 

Eocal 

H. H. the Sultan has been pleased on- tfe 
recommendation of his First Minister and will 
the assent of H. M. Agent and Consul-G&nerl 
to bestow upon Dr. Walter Mansfield Aders ffi 
decoration of the 2nd Class of the Brilliant Str 
in recognition of services rendered by him i 
connection with the investigation of the disease 
of plants and animals in Zanzibar. 

H. M. the King has been graciously pleased 3 
authorize Dr. Aders to accept and wear te 
insignia of the Order. 

We regret to announce the death on the 28th 
February of Mr. Ernest Morland, who since the 
beginning of 1911 has temporarily acted as a 
Superintendent of the Department of Agriculture. 
■ Mr. Morland was well known to Botanical 
Gardens and Museums at home as a contributor 
of Zanzibar and Pemba plants and butterflies. 

A new Pemba Orchid was named after him, 
and shortly before his death he discovered another 
which has yet to be named. 
‘i-Mr. Morland was buried in the English Ceme- 
tery. 

 :o:  

The rainfall in Zanzibar Town during the 
month of February was 6'99 inches. For last year 
to the end of February 0'55 inches were recorded. 

The total number of deaths for February, 1912, 
in Zanzibar and the Shambas within the Town 
districts, was 81. Of these:—3d occurred in 
the Town districts, 41 in the North and South 
Ngambo districts, 5 in the near Shaiubas and 1 in 
the Harbour. 

Thuee thousand and fifty nine rats, living and 
dead, have been received at the various collecting 
stations during the month of February, 1912. 

 :o:  

The following animals were treated at the 
Veterinary Hospital during the month of February,. 

Govt. 

Inspector cases. 
Donkeys 2 
Bullock L 

z. s. p. c. A. 
iNSFECIOli CASKS. 
Donkeys 5 

Police cases. 

None. 

-:o:- 
GOLF. 

The Half Yearly handicap was won 
Crawley who beat J. W. Murison in 
by four up and two to play. 

by R. G. 
the final 

We welcome the publication of three Leaflets 

Dr. Aders with the respective titles:— 
' (1) An Account of Insects injurious to Ecoi- 
mic Plants in Zanzibar, (2) The Blood-sucking Ar- 
ropods of Zanzibar harmful to Man or Stock, i 
Report on East Coast Eever in Zanzibar. i 
These leaflets are the outcome of tire careful- 
vestigations and exhaustive experiments carried t 
by Dr. Aders during the past eighteen mon-i. 
They should prove invaluable for future referee, 
and we venture to hope are but the first of a rt - 
lar supply of publications on kindred subjects:,i 
regard to which Zanzibar offers an almost unlim,! 
field for research. i 
 :o:  i 
Dr. Aders is a passenger for Egypt by the i„ 
“Puxnea” which leaves this afternoon. t 
During his sojourn in Zanzibar Dr. Aders s 
been indefatigable in investigating the cause f 
various diseases to which cattle and plant life in p 
Sultanate are subject. The results of his wor j' 
properly applied should be of great value to ■ 
Government and the people. Among these- ■ 
would specially cite his investigations into j 
Coast Fever in Cattle and the ravages catisec - 
the Rhinoceros Beetle in coconut palms, wj 
.have cleared up ninny hitherto vexed question 
It is hoped that at some not far distant date 
Aders may be enabled to return to Zanzibai, 
complete bis investigations in other directions. . 

THE JANSSEN0 SCRATCH CUP. 

The competition for the above cup, presented by 
Mr. C. Janssen for the best gross score for 36 
holes, was held on February 27th and following 
days and was won by J. W. Murison. The follow- 
ing cards were returned :— 

J. W. Murison 
F. W. Baughan 
W. B. Swinerd 
J. Gardner 

1st day 2nd day 

42 45 
4d 
43 
44 
44 
43 
47 
:o:  
THE BARTON 

3RD DAT 
38 
41 
44 
46 

CUP. 

4tij day 
40 = 165 
43 = 171 
45 - 177 
43 = 179 

The competition for the above cup, presented 
by CaptainF. R. Barton, c.m.g., forihe best nett 
score over 18 holes made by a lady member, result- 
ed as follows:— 

Mrs. Gardner 
Mrs. Mead 
Mrs. Murison 
Mrs. Durand 
Mrs. Withycombe 
Mrs. Rivers-Smith 
Mrs. Curwen 

106 - 8 = 
102 scr. = 
121 - IS = 
115 - 8 = 
121 - 14 = 
121 - 10 = 
131 - 12 = 

98 
102 
103 
107 
107 
111 
119 

HOCKEY. 

H. M. S. “Foete” t. Zanzibar. 

This match was played on the Canteen Ground 
on Monday last and resulted iu a draw of one 
goal each. 

March 4, 1912. 

ZANZIBAR SAILING CLUB. 

THE GAZETTE 

13 

The above club held a race on Saturday last in con- 
.Tunction with H.M.S. Forte, over a course South of 
♦Shangaiii; 

There was a very light and fluky breeze from S E 

to E. S. E. 

The starting gun was fired at 3 p. m. the start 
being rather straggly on account of the liafit breeze 
The boats were led over the line by “Lotte” 

The “Sultan” and “Lulu” gradually drew ahead 
after rounding the second buov but the wind chang- 
ing enabled the “Pilot” Boat to catch up consi- 
derably. The second round was rather tedious owiiw 
to lack ot wind, the “Lulu just managing to crawl 
iu on the last of the wind, leaving “Pilot” Boat 
and “Sultan” almost becalmed when they where 
both in a very good position. 

H. M. S. Forte acted as Elagship by the kind 
permisssion olj' Captain Hutton. . It was a pity the 
wind was so light as it gave the Navy boats very 
little chance. ' J 

Nett 
Fi.vtsh H’cap 
Time 
H* M. S. H. M. S. 
6 27 28 scratch 6 27 28 
7 0 4 20 mins. 6 40 4 
7 7 27 2.5 „ G 42 27 
did uot finish 

Result. 
1st 
2nd 
3rd 

Boat 

Start 
H. M. S. 
3 37 26 
3 41 20 
3 38 8 
3 37 35 
3 37 58 

1st 
Round 
n. m. s. 
4 58 37 
5 9 21 
5 IS 44 
5 21 13 
25 18 

Lulu 
Pilot Boat 
Suita u 
Forte's Pinnace 
Galley 
Cutter No. 1 3 49 8 did not finish 
Cutter Note 4 13 9 „ 
Skiff ; 3 44 11 

Cupid’s Life Boat 3 38 27 5 26 IS 
Lotte _ 3 37 22 5 26 55 
Samaki 1 3 41 15 5 44 33 
~:o:- 

HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 

Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 
Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 

Morning. 

Date h. 

March 4 
,, 5 
>. 6 
7 
„ 8 
„ 9 
„ 10 
„ 11 
„ 12 
„ 13 
,, 14 
„ 15 
„ 16 
17 

m. 
03 
o 
44 
C 
21 
6 
57 
32 
7 
05 
8 
8 
42 
9 
24 
10 
21 
11 
46 
12 
38 
2 
09 
3 13 
3 56 

Afternoon. 
h. in. 
5 24 
6 
03 
6 
39 
7 
15 
48 
7 
23 
S 
9 
02 
9 
50 
10 
59 

1 
2 
3 
4 

27 
44 
36 
13 

AUCTION SALE 

Under instructions received, the under- 
■ gne(I will, on Saturday and Sunday the 
6th and 17th March, 1912, at 9.30 a. m. 
s ;11 by public auction, all the old articles 
s itch as large mirrors, carpets, lamps, chan- 
t ehers, furniture, large copper pots, china, 
i tattings, &c., etc., at the Palace Bet-eU 

jaib. 
Property on view on the 14th and 15th 
.stant. 

Zanzibar, 28th February, 1912. 

R. N. TALATI, 
Official Auctioneer. 

AUCTION7 SALE. 

Under instructions received, the under- 
jned will, by Public Auction on Thursday 
10 21st March, 1912, sell the following-. 
te property of H. H. the ex-Sultan-at the 
alace of Bet-el-Ajaib 
One Humber Motor Car 20 H. P. with 
ccessories. 
One Darrac Motor Car 10 H. P with 
xessories. „ 
One DeiDion Bouton Motor Car 8 H. P. 
ith accessories. 
One Bay Arab Horse. 
One White Muscat Donkey. 
The above cars, animals, Ac., 
'wed eight days before the sale 
’cation to the undersigned. 

can be 
on ap- 

. j 

Zanzibar, 28th February, mt^ Aucti“ 

R- N. TALATI, 

AUCTION SALE. 

Under instructions received the uuder- 
ined will, on Sunday the 10th March, 1912, 

isph nM uSe mby public auctiou all the 
isehold and office furniture belonging to 

iBaotmi amS0U’ I)entist’ on his premises 
Piopeity on view on Saturday afternoon. 

lanzibar, 28th February, 1911. 

R- N. TALATI, 

Official Auctioneer. 

F. S. BARDO, 

Port Officer. 

-:o:— 

VACCINATION REPORT. 

Health Office, Zanzibar, 3rd March, 1012. 

Town Districts   .. 89 
Mkokotoni   15 
Mangapwani   6 

From 26th February to 3d March 1912 110 
Total vaccinated from 8th June 1910 to date 57,515 

A. H. SPURRIER, 

Health Officer. 1 

NOTICE. 

>e: W. E. R. Kemplen deceased. 
01 creditors of the above deceased who 
proved their claims are hereby notified 
the estate which has proved to be 
Went is to be wound up, a final dividend 
0,0 approximately being payable. Ac- 
ms ot the administration of the estate 
open to inspection by all creditors at the 
of the undersigned during office hours 

befiUL P flfc^Then the counts 
be hied in Court and pro rata distribution 
ie estate made among the creditors. 

FRANK W. VINING. 

Administrator appointed on 
•i , behalf of all creditors 
mzibar, March 1st, 1912, S’ 

Cloves hales.. 
Clovestems bis.. 
Gum bags.. 
Copra bags.. 
Ivory 
Rubber cases.. 
Sim Sim bags.. 
Tortoise shells .. 
Hides h'dle.. 
Orchella weed .. 
Ghillies 
Various p’kges. ,;11 

Produce 

14 

THE  ga|: ETTE 

March 4, 1912. 

RETURN OF MERCHANDISE EXPORTED BY STEAMERS from 16th to 31st DEC., 1911. 
U.-C. L. s.s. GOOBKHA to Europe on the 12th 

ijU.-O. L. s.s. GUELPH to Enropo on the 22nd 

Produce 

: iL’don 

No. of Passengers 

for 

Various Ports 

London 

[No. of Passengers 

Now i for 
York Various Ports 

1012: 

250 

1st Clas_s 
2nd „ 

... 3rd 

Peck 

70  150 

50 

25j 

.. 2000: 3751 
50 
.. 500 
.. 1st Class 
so: .. 
113 .. 
0e.42t.110p ...: 
!! 2nd „ 
3 ..I  j 
’. . 3rd „ 
3 ... 
10 ..; 
.. Deck 
• ■ i . •! 

P.O.A.L. s.s. -M A It KG RAF to Bombay on the 22nd 

D.O.A.L. s.s. FELDMARSCHALIj to Europe on the 21th 

Bombay , for 

'No. of Passengers 
' Various Ports 

: to s n ~ 1 i 
C-I h 

Q O 
6 S -S 
> 3 Tv 

I 

, I 
. 1C 

125 SO 

25 50 

1st Class 
2nd „ 
3rd ,, 
Deck 

45 

i 

jirg Hnm- 
£ wj burg 
557 
1220 

700 

ItS for 

H !No. of Passengers 
Various Ports 

.. 40t. 

1st Class 4 
2nd „ 7 
: 3rd 
..! .. : Deck 

3171 

3552 50:[ 

25 ( 

40 

M.M. s.s. ATAL to Europe on the 27th 

i 15 *o 1 c3 i ^ 
r/3 a? •*T' 
25 353 
. 50 
;;j;; ;; 
'iCG 

..I 
••"•I 

ala |H6'. of Passengers 

'-',1 n O ! r ° 
_ . i 3 j,o j 
^ tq 1 i j : Various Ports 
75 

for 

K.-T. & Co. s.s. KHAVA to 

Kismayu on the 18th 
for 

” No. of Passengers 

Various Ports 

^ • rt'' ^ 
i_J ^>"^2 

" ■ 
0 1st Class 
G 2nd „ 
■j 3rd ,, 
. Deck 

1 
3 
13 

1st Class 
2nd ,, i 
3rd „ 
Deck 2J: 

5ll4>.. | 

11 97l fil G 
M. 31. s.s. MPANJAKA to South on the 25th 

I 

2569 

.. j*2c. St. Cop. 

Gloves bales.. j.. 
Glovestems bis..1.. 
Gum bags..!... 
Copra bags..,.. 
Ivory .... 
Hubber eases.. .. 
Sim Sim hags  
tortoise shills   
Hides .... 
Orchella weed .... 
Chillies   .. , 
Various n'kges,. j67i 121* 201; 

.. 

B.I.S.N.Co. s.s. PALAMCOTTA to South 
on the 16th  
3 i x -tj := No. of Passengers 
Various Ports 
^ Q ^ b 
.:! G 

Produce 

for 

A 

Glovestems bis 
Gum 
Gopra bags 
Ivory 
Rubber cases 
Sim Sim bags   
Tortoise shells.. .. 
Hides .... 
Orchella weed .■! ; 
Chillies . .I..i i 
Various p’Uges. .112! 2 

1st Class 
2nd „ 
3rd „ 

J..I Deck 

D.O.A.L. s.s. MARKGRAF to South 

Produce 

Various p’kges. 
Animals 

on the 16th 
Dares = ! for 
Salami 

]z, :No. of Passengers 
! Various Ports 
i 1st Class 1 

16! 19! 2nd „ 
.. ..3rd 

I Dec-]; 

More- -MuMIayo-jAIajn- Ana- 

ni muc ttel iiga! lalave 
27 G 

11 

SS 

50 

2-21 | S| 
as prorun £ jNos- Diego 
< i davn: £ I sibe Snarer. 

No. of Passengers 

for 

!)£ 

Various Ports 
1st Class .. 
2nd „ 
3rd „ 
Deck 0(5 
Z’bar Govt. s.s. BARAWA to Pemba 
   on the 19th 
Koko- 
toni 

_9 ” Chakero 
S drake 

No. of Passengers 

for 

101 20 

to Bomli on thp OKuy 

Various Ports 
1st Class i" 
2nd ,, 
3rd „ 
Deck 073 

No. of Passeugeis 
for 
-Various Ports 
ist Class 
2nd „ 
3rd , 
Deck- 

15 

D.O.A.L. s.s. ADMIRAL to South on the 17th 
No. of Passengers 
-2 Various Ports 

Produce  M’bique? for 
1st Class 

Various p’kges. 
Animals 

13| 2 2nd „ 
 | 3rd ,, 
| Deck 

: ns tt 

Wm. O’Rd & Co. s.s. ZANZIBAR 
 tnropo on the 21st 
L0 No. of Passengers 
v: w : 2 
- - - w — f°r 
o 7i 
H  >3 I Various Ports 
C“f 
j fist Class 
398' 205! 2 2nd „ 
-I ••'3rd „ 

ooo 
•0—0 

Deck 

G.l). & Bros. s.s. AFRU’A to Kismayu on the 16th 
^ g; No. of Passer 
for 
Produce 
Various Po 
1st Class 
2nd „ 
3rd „ 
Deck 

H > f. T 1 
1 itq ^ M ra 

4Sj3G; 119 

23297, 

I 

Various 
Animals 

M’junga 

3 ‘ 1 
o rB Anala- Nossi-Iie; Diego Tama- 
3 1   'Suarez tave 

12 

40, 

10 

19 

12 

Produce 

K’kotoni S 53 

Various p’kges..) 
Animals . .• 

No. of P:i;eri 
fo 
Vaiious.s 
Ul Ci ts* 6 
2nd „ ... 
3rd „ .. 
Deck 5*2 

S.3S 5-1 
11..112 
i 

urcK. s.s. VViss.MA^oJvhnaynon tl]e23rd ' 
vl = i •2151 £ |No. of Passengers 

112 

109 

a i; 
22 54 

100 

for 
I arii ms Ports 
1st Class 
2nd ,, 
3rd 
Deck 

March 4, 1912. 

THE GAZETTE 

15 

r -J 

European 

MAILS. 

STEAMERS 

Peldmarschall 
Carisbrook Castle 
Purnea 
Melbourne 
Adolph Wcermann 

D. 0. A. L. 
1 U.-C, L. j 
B. I. S. N. Co. March 
M. M. ! .. 
D.O.A.L. .. 

Mails leave jMail arrive 
Zanzibar | in London. 

mzessin 
nvegan Castle 
our 
inpriuz 
■nea ; 

d. o. A. L. 
U.-C. L. 
M. M. 

D. O. A. L. 
B. I. S. N. Co. 

INDIAN 

iAILS. 

Mails arriving from Bombay 

STEAMERS 

Name of Lines Mate leave 

Bombay 

Mails 
arrive in 
Zanzibar 

Mails despatched to Bombay 

ITEAMERS 

Name of Lines! :'e‘lvc Mails arriva 
j Zanzibar J in Bombay 

Pentakota 
Markgraf 

B.I.S.X.Co. 
D. O. A, L. 

March 

ID 

am'eotta 
iident 

I March 4! 
U.O.A.L. .. 7 

H. H. the Sultan of Zai 

ibar’s Government 

Custom 

OUSE. 

Statement of principal items of Afrio 
During the Week En 

reduce imported into Zanzibar, 
Q '2nd March, 1912. 

:man Southern j Total lbs. 
)asc Ports i 
lbs 

lbs. 

Italian 
H. H. British Benadir 
Dominions East Africa Ports. 

lbs. 

lbs. 

1121 

107 

lbs. ! 
711 
20G430 
146903 
251G44 
154443 
1GS, 

112 
140 

Chillies 
Cloves (Z’bar) 
„ (Pemba) 
„ Stems 

Copra 
Gum Copal 
Hides 
Hippo-teeth 
Ivory 
Rhino horns 
Rubber 
Sim Sim 
Tortoise shells 
Wax 

59G10 
13053 
950 
57G 
114S 
IOO! 
8921 
14039, 

Equal to 

Eras. 
20 
5S9S 
4197’ 
7189, 
G115 
372: 
31 
1G1 
67: o 
28, 
3262 

lbs. 
11 
S 
29 
28 
33 
33 
ir, 
31 
30 
24 
9 
10 
S 

lbs. 
711 
206430 
140903 
251614 
214053 
13053 
HIS 
57G| 
2376 
100 
1004 
44179 
10 
8 

10 

10 

TOTAL..' 

7G0559 

1121 

107 

!03G$ 

SS21G5 25204 

Current Wholesale Market quotations of hcipal items of African Produce 

During the Week Endix p March, 1912. 

Articles 

Chillies 
Cloves (Zanzibar) 
j 1 (Pomba) 
n Stems 

Cocoanuts 
Copra 
Gum Copal 
Hides 
Hippo-teeth 
Ivory 
Rhino horns 
Rubber 
Sim Sim 
Tortoise shells 

i 

W. B. SWINEED, 

tliief of Customs, 

W. B. SWINEED, 

Chief of Customs. 

16 

the GAZETTE 

March, 4 1912. 

March 4, 1912. 

THE iAZETTE 

17 

METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS, ZANZIBAR- 

Temperature 
Barometer Wet Bulb ^lax. IVlin. 

Wind 

British India Steam Nali 
■ 

gation Company, Ld. 

Monday 
Tuesday 
Wednesday 
Thursday 
Friday 
Saturday 
Sunday 

Date 

Feb. '26 
„ 27 
„ 28 
„ 29 
1 
2 
3 

Mar. 

8 a.m. 
.30-000 
30-010 
30-056 
30-060 
30-080 
30-082 
30-062 

8 a.rn. 24 boms 24 hours 
86-9 730 
80-0 
77-1 
73-3 
80-0 
76- 1 
82-7 
77- 2 
80-4 
86- 3 
73-8 
79-5 
87- 6 

R. M. S. Purnea ” will carry lails each month between this poO 
Mombasa and Aden and vice versa on the d,i s given below, connecting at Aden with 
the Royal Mail Steamers of theP. and O.^. N. Co. 

ROYAL MAI.  SERVICE. 

Direction 
N N E 
wsw 
NEW 
NNE 
s w 
Call- 
E S E 

E. M. S. “PURNEA” will sail for Aden via l mbasa on the 1st April. 

Bain 
Inches 
0-86 
0-55 
0-09 
0-00 
1-05 
0-11 
0-00 

Week’s means.... 30-050 76’4 83-4 75-7 

Total.... 4-66 

Total Rainfall to 29th Tebruaiy, 1912, 11-35 inches. 

shipping report 

for WEEK ENI'IKGj 3ed MARCH, 1912. 

Captain Tons- Cargo  Nationa- 

whom 
consigned 

Where from 

■Name of Vessel 

Duplex c 
Cupid s 
Barawa 
Purnea 
Oxus 
Kaiser Wilhelm II 
Kiugani 
Adour 
Umballa 
Kilwa 
Kiugani 
Koenig 
Barawa 
Umvolosi 
Clan Shaw 
Africa 
Rovuma 
Palamcotta 
Praesident  

Boyd 
Jafierkhan 
iNoorudin 
IWilliauiS 
|Bvoc 
Giesc 
Schaa 
Mont on 
Brock 
Fakir 
Heningsen 
Holdt 
Noorudin 
i'Miller 
Hunter 
Doysean 
; Tanden 
iCutbush 
Bremer 

| 431 [Cable 
• 243 :General 
' 1G5 i do 
2127 1 do 
1-2269 do 
do 
97 
do 
25 
do 
2348 
34261 do 
, 161 do 
I 25 do 
3048! do 
! 165. do 
I If JOG do 
do 
2504 
do 
j 162 
do 
i 55 
do 
2208 
do 
12069 

do 

lity 
British 
Zanziba 
British 
French 
German 
French 
'British 
I do 
'German 
i do 
Zanzib; 
British 

do 

do 
do 

do 

do 

E. T. Co. 
Z’bar Govt, 
S. M. & Co. 
M. M. & Co. 
C. D. & Bros, 
IM. M. & Co 
‘S. M. & Co. 
,E. J. & Co. 
C. D. & Bros. 
D. O. A. L. 
Z’bar Govt. 
iBoustead Bros. 
A. M. J. & Co. 
C. D. & Bros. 
I do 
S. M. & Co. 
ID. O. A. L. 

Mombasa 
Pemba 
do 
Aden 
Mauritius 
■D’Salam 
j do 
Marseilles 
Rangoon 
Kismayu 
D’Salam 
Mozambique 
Pemba 
Natal 
do 
Kismayu 
Mombasa 
Durban 
Bombay 

Genuai 
British 
Germ a: 
Me of-’W'ar. 

Date 

Arr. Dep. 
Feb. 

26 

Mar 
i ” 

Feb. 27 Mozambique 

do 

Is still in harbour 
jls still in harbour 

27 Pemba 
27 Marseilles 
28 Dar-es-Salam 
27 
^ladagascar 
28 
Is still in harbour 
Mar 2 
Dar-es-Salam 
, do 
3 Bombay 
Is still in harbour 
2 Bombay 
is still in harbour 
4 Dar-es-Salam 
is still iu harbour 
I do 

dp 

HOMEY 

R DS. 

Leave P. & O. S. N. Go’s. Steamer 
Zanzibar R. M. S. ! Leaves Ade: 

Mails arrive 

London 

Steamer Arrives 

Marseilles 

Steamer 

Arrives London. 

Bound to 

1912 
1st April 
29th April 

MOOLTAN 
EGYPT 

1912 

9th April 
7 th May 

1912 

!9th April 
9th May 

1912 

20th April 
18th May 

1912 
26th April 
24th May 

OUTW RDS. 

P. & O. S. N. Go's. 

R. M. S. 

T Mails leave meamer Leaves 
Leave London, London F Ma,geilles 

R. M. S. 
Purnea 

Leaves Aden 

R.M.S. Pumas 
due Zanzibar. 

MOOLTAN 
EGYPT 
A Steamer 

29th March 
26th April 

8th March BSth March 
5th April ■5th April 
3rd M.ay 
3rd Mav 

18th March 
15th April 
13th May 

27th March 
24th April 
24th May 

LONDON CJ GO LINE 

OUTW 

DS. 

Torte 

H.mS.'G. B. Hutton 

•British 

iLourence Feb. 17, 
' ir»]Tjiies| 

Is still in harbour 

S. S. “MURISTAN” left London on 9t 

bruarv. 

Dhows arrived. 

Zanzibar & British 59 

German 

Indian 

French 

Arabian 

Total.... 

16 

4 

10 

89 

Dhows sailed. 

Zanzibar & British 62 

German 18 

Indian 5 

French — 

Arabian 3 

Total.... 88 

S. S. “SERBISTAN” will sail from Lo: 1 on the 9th March. 

BOMBAY—EAST & SO H AFRICAN LINE 

8. S. “PENTAKOTA” from Bombay via So; 

and will sail the same day for Southern Ports 

:es and Mombasa will arrive on 7th Mardh 

This service will be coi 

ad every 28 days. 

For Rates of Freight, Passage Met 

and any further particulars 

F. S. BARDO, 

Port Oflicer. 

apply to 

The sun never sets on theikers of Brooke Bond’s Tea. 
Only good goods, uprigbaling and continual improvement could 

have produced such a result. 

BROOKE BOND’S TEA 

Sold by ie leading Storedealers. 

Wholesale AgentsMessrs. WM. ALD & Co., 

anzibar, Mombasa, British and German East Africa. 

SMITflACKENZIE & Co. 

AGKENTS, 

ll N. Co. Ld., and P. & O. S. N. Co. 

IS 

THE GAZETTE 

March 4, 1912. 

March 4,1912. 

THE GAiETTE 

19 

DEUTSCHE OST-AFRIKA-LINIE. 

Regular Service with Europe, South Afrika and Bombay. 

UNION-CASTLE LINE 

Next arrivals t 

sailings. 

DONALD CURRIE & CO| LONDON, MANAGERS. 

Royal East African Steamship Service. 

Sailings from Zanz|)ar for England. 

Via Mozambique, Chinde, Beira, Delagoa Bay Nat l “d 
with transhipment, Cape Ports and Canary Islands t Um0 
occasionally at Lobito Bay and St. Helena and Asce 

Via Mombasa, Aden, Port Sudan, Suez, Port Said, 

Naples, Marseilles and Gibraltar. 

Sailing from Zanzibar. 

Steamer. 

Captain. 

Sailing from Zanzibar. 

i 

H. Strong, r. n.r. 
S.S. GUELPH* 
S. Owen. 
S.b- lA U IN V iAATApN pj. wvvcii. 
S.S. DUNYEGAE CA8hE_ 
S.S. CARISBBOOK CAJ'LE D. Samuel. 
S.S. GASCOE 
S.S. GAIK A 

L. A. Millard, it. y. r. 
J. N. Culver-well, i;. n. r. 

10th March 
22nd March 
19th April 
17th May 
14th June 

23rd March 
20th April 
18th May 

*: EXT ± STEAMER. 

Royal Mail Steamers frm Natal (via West Coast.) 

Making Connecon with the above. 

Tons. 

Captain. 

Ath Anril r.m.s. ARMADALE CTLE 
2nd May „ KIE FAUNS Ci’LE 

12,973 J. Tyson 
9,GG4 F. J. Aloseley, r. n. r. 

Through bookings can be arraid via West Coast by Mail or Intermediate 

Steamers with transhipment at Natal 

Passengers can be booked to E York via Southampton. 
Intermediate Steamers sail fronatal for England {via AVest Coast) at regular 

intervalvveekly Service fronatal, for Delagoa Bay, Beira and Mauritius. 

Homewarrteturn Tickets. 

A reduction of 10% off the amo of two single fares between the same Ports 

is made on Beturn Tickets which anailable for twelve months. 

Coastse Tickets. 

Coastwise Tickets; issued at Beduced Fares. 

For Sailing Lists, Handbooks, aminformation regarding Freight and Passages. 

APPLY TO 

Messrs. Sm, Mackenzie & Co., 

Zanzibar. 

Next Arrivals from Europe. 

Next Sailings for Europe. 

• S. S. FELDMARSCHALL 
• s. s. ADOLPH WOERMANN 
• S. S. WINDHUK 

on or about ISthMarc h 
,, 31st „ 
,, 17th April 

S. PRINZESSIN 
S. KOMMODORE 
S. KRONPRINZ 

£ 

on or about 14th March 

■> nth „ 
,, 30 th ,, 

From Bombay. 

t S. S. MARKGRAF 
f S. S. KANZLER 

From South- 

19th March 
30 th ,, 

11th March 
26 th „ 
30 th „ 
10th April 

• S. S. PRINZESSIN 
• S.S. KRONPR1NZ 
t S. S. MARKGRAF 
• s. S. ADMIRAL 

T 
S: Main In 
I Bomb# I 
§ Cargo oa 
J Callinjat 
Notice to consignees of Import cargo. Durinft’ 
of the Agency will be present at the Custom Hoisi 
examine all broken packages and settle claims on k 
are broken prior to delivery to Custom House autb 
The Company will not entertain any claim of 

charging has been completed. 

For Bombay. 
if. prjesident t 
S. MARKGRAF 

For South. 
S. FELDMARSCHALL 
S. MARKGRAF 
S ADOLPH WOERMANN 
S KANZLER 

7th March 
1st April 

21st March 
21st „ 
3rd April 
1st ,, 

dscharging of our steamers a representative 
it ween the hours of 8J and 91 a. m. to 
I such examination, provided the packages 
rs. 
soever nature later than 3 days after dis- 

For further particulars app 

Deutsche Ost-feika-Linie, Zanzibar. 

Tel AD tSS “HUNDEWADT”, (Zanzibar.) 

SMITH MACOZIE & CO. 

Agents: —BRITISH IMA Sp NAVIGATION C LD. 

LLOY ) 

District between Gnardafiii $ 
Zanzibar & 

<[3e Dalgaclo, Including 
iinba. 

(RJfiTJTER’S 

A <: 

sisroY 

ASIATIC PETROL 
Importers of Kerosine Oi 
Cory Bros. & Co. Ld., Best 
Contractors to the British 
The African Lakes Co 

iff Co., Ld. 
inlk and Case. 
teh Coal (Myrthyr). 
German Navies. 
jation Limited. 

INSTJEANCl IGENTS. 

Sole Importers ofAJexand 

D. & J. McCallum’s “Perfection” Wbisky, ■ 
and Tarpaulins, Jas. Buchanan &. Co 
Portland Cement (Whites Band.) 

•rgusson & Co.’s Paints and Oi 
*c Iwraith & Co.’s Barge Cov< 
ack and White” Scotch Whisi 

Importers of:—“Bull Dog” A 

Stout, Galvanized Sheets, 

Brandies, ™ 

Cham] is, etc. etc. 

SMITH, MACKENZIE & COMPANY  NZIBAR AND MOMBASA. 

20 

THE C-IZETTE 

March 4, 1912. 

larch 4, 1912 

THE GAZETTE 

Society Nazionale i Servizi Marittimi. 

ITALIAN ROYAl|MAIL SERVICE. 

-O 1 noUn'not; pvpi'v four weeks f'om Zanzibar to Genoa calling at Mombasa, 
Kismay? BelS& rortrAaen, Ma^lport 8M, Catania, Lalhom, Naples, 
andwc6 booked for all tlefbove destinations as well as (by transbip- 

xnentTinto the Company’s other services) footle Adriatic, the Levantc, Black Sea, North 
and South America, Bombay and'the Am « Ports. 

Wine at meals free. J 
Special rates granted to Missiona'jes, '0»rals and their families. 

For further iforinajjpn apply to 

i • aw i “5ERP/AR Zanzibar L. FRIGBRIO & CO., 
Telegraphic Address: SERPAAk, ’ 

Agents, Zanzibar and Mombasa. 

BESSON & CO. 

IMPORT AND EXPORT G^EEAL MERCHANTS. 

Zanzibar, Mombasa, Kampala, J [anda), Tanga, Bagamoyo. 

MARSEL .ES 

HUMBER & Cos. Bicycles,Ladiesjfeentlemen’s, always in stock. 

SOLE AGEH S FOR 

BAT L DEULLIN’S (Ee^nay-) Champagne. 

CUSENIER’S High ClasiSq|ieurs & Brandies. 

POT LET PERE & FILS (bain) Burgundy Wines. 
LAPOUYADE & Go’s. (BorclmJ) led & White Clarets. 

Manufacture Francaise d’Arme;eld; Cycles de Saint Etienne.1 
General Outfitters (Catalogue containing moiuhj 7)00 illustrated articles, on application) 

Insist upon hang 

COLVIAN’S 

MUSTARD. 

COLMAN’ 

COLMAN’S 

No. 1 

rice 

No. 1 AZURE 

and WINDSOR 

STARCE 

BLUES. 

LIPDN’S tea 

UNPROACHED 

2ECAUSE 

U^ROACHABLE 

Sole Agents in Zarr and German East Africa. 

SMITH MACKENZIE & ) ^ „ 
BESSON & Cm. [ ZANZIBAR. 
BOUSTEAD BROS. J 

March 4,1912. 

THE GAZE'] 

28 

R. N- TALATI. 

SWAHILI TRANSLATION'S. 

building contractor, 

AND 

AUCTIONEER, GENERAL MERCHANT, 

AND 

COMMISSION AGENT, 

ZANZIBAR. 

< 

I BY 

JUDGE MURISON. 

Price Rs. 2/8. 

POSTAGE 2 ANS. EXTRA. 

Household and Office Turnifcure, Sinks, 
and other Lamps, Table glasses, Cutlery, 
Crockery, Plate Enamelled and Aluminium 
ware, Stationery, Ice chests, Iron Safes, 
Eilters, Clocks and Watches. 

Travellers’ and Explorers’ Eequisites of 

every description always in stock. 

Green Waterproof Canvas, Tents and 

Tarpaulins. 

India Kubber Goods, Steel Trunks and 
Uniform-boxes, Electric Bells, Wires, 
pushes and Staples, &c. &c. &c. 

Blundell’s Paints and Oil and Water 

Colours, Varnishes, Ac., &c. 

obtained from the Gazette Office 

id.Tfrm the principal Stores in Town, 

n 

Ip 

at Nairobi from the Offices of The East 

iarStanclard and The Leader. 

JOBRESPONDENCE. 
Jvertisements and notices for pub- 
sion should reach the GAZETTE Office 
olater than FRIDAY 10 a. m. in each 
;e. Otherwise they cannot be accepted 
ohe current number. 

USHER’S WHISKY 

QUALITY GUARANTED 

“THE BRAND'' FOR EAST AFRICA 

HE GAZETTE. 

U-ISHED EVERY MONDAY. 
pcriiotions are payable in advance and 
wM be accompanied by a remittance at the 
16 and 50 cents per annum for town subs* 
.( g ^IS' 9 and 75 cents per annum; where 
u l to be posted to other places. 

r Rs. Centa 

f ot one copy one month old . . 0 37 
„ „ six months old ..0 75 
,, „ one year old ... 1 50 
e copy for non subscribers ... 0 25 

INVALUABLE for your 
HEALTH'S SAKE. 

WILKINSON’S 

Essence or Fluid Extract of RED JAMAICA 

• -. 

SARSAPARILLA 

Pronounced by the HIGHEST MEDICAL AUTHORITIES 

/ 

Wonderful Purifier 
yT&hftGtoAN :bl©$d 

The SAFEST and most RELIABLE Remedy {or 

™bp,d

deb1'u?V, 

... 

HAS OVER 75 YEARS’ 

WORLD-WIDE REPUTATION. 

For BUILDING- UP 

y°ur HEALTH tako 

WILKINSON’S 

SARSAPARILLA 

v-h 

VOU and 

I Everybody 

“The best PICK-ME-UP.” 

by appointment to 

HIS HMESS lim All GIN HAM', f 
Sultan of Zanzibar- J 

B ANDREW BROS. 

Dealers in Precious ^t’one 

Manufacturers of Toi'toise-shell, IvcncP 

Ebcne Curiosities. . 

Handfnade Ceylon lacatc. 

Every article warranted gen. 
Prompt attei tion given to or and 
every effort nu de to give to Oners 
the utmost satisfaction. 

IVCain. Street vdanzr. 
Herd Office: Point de Galle, Ceyl< 

- BBpanciies at Daressalam andjran   

By Special Warrant 
JEWELLERS AND GOLDS! 

H. H. THE SULTAN OF ZA1R. 

H. H, I. de S1LVS < 
Established 1887 

Manufacturing Jewellers and r.s in 
precious stones, Ceylon Tea md 

made hu e always in ft. 

Orders promptly and accurateluted 

at moderate charge: 
Every article guarani 

Head Office: (i Ohatbam Btreenbo. 
Branches at Daressalam and DeV. 

—s:: 3. 

wmm 

24 

THE 

ZETTE 

March 4, 1912. 

oomp^m 

'TIJEj ID IDS 

MESSAGERIE ^ MARIT1MES. 

The s. s. Adoui1 will sail foi ^ 

FRENCH 

Djibouti. 

Suez and Port Said. 

The s 

Melbourne from tIVars 

sail the same day for Mayotte iVadEgf 
at Diego-Suarez), Bourbon and MaiutiuS 

Passengers and cargo are bookd for4^ 

to steamers of the same company) to 
China, Japan, Australia, Black beaand M 
Passengers booked to Lurenc, 
steamers as far as Majunga and %ie W 
Ambohibe, Tulear and due inJuibar,, 
dava, 
. , n tuets ai> 

Through single and return 

IL STEAMERS. 
illes on the 27th March  via 

Mombasa 

s is expected, on the 28th March and will 
sap, (Mahe—Seychelles by transhipment 

fp'bove destinations and ( by transhipment 
Dunkirk, London (cargo only), India 
;erranean ports. ’ 
larques and Durban by main line 
.. local steamer calling at Nam el a, Morun- 
the I2th of every month. 
;sued to the above destinations and to 

London (by rail from Marseilles). ji 
Return tickets to Marseilkand L 

[don available for two years issued 

at a full single fare and a half 

The Company are prepared gmil at special rates through tickets to 
Brindisi, Naples, Genoa, Vemfi^y trdjhipment at Port Said or Alexand- 
ma    . , 

to the steamers of the Hfeionale di Servizi Maritimi". 
Passengers may also so to; 

also go to/Medles tmd Comoro Islands, Majunga, Nossi-Be 
Diego-Suafez, Seychelles, 
Pa^S a11 extra fare of in 
1st class—£3 in 2nd class ^ 
   - , . ? fiass- ^ailm7s by that route on or about the 
28th of each month; arrivals m Mail Ms tn or about the 25th of,the followincr m0nth 
Special reduced fares areinted^for 1st and 2nd class single °ticket^ 

arrivals m Madles 

to Officials, Missionaries and ur families. 

MONTHLY SEEVICE EELEN^ZANZIBAR AND DIEGO-SUAREZ. 

Thes. S. MPANJAKA will I Zanzibar on the 25th of every month for the 
re destination via Comoro Is.s ( Moroni, Mohely, Mutsamudu and Mayotte) 
un°’a, Analalave, and ^\0SBi-33(: 

above 
Majun, 

For further particulars apply to 

Telegraphic address. 

!; MESSAGERIE,. ZANZ 

THE AGE WIESSAGERIES IWARITIIVIES, ZANZIBAR 

BY APPOIN" To H.M. THE KING. 

LEMCO ANOLK is a powerful, tissue 

building, invisng, readily digested food 

tonic. A glavice a day does more for 

invalids, delicaildren,anaemic and “nervy” 

people, than je of air. Add i to i tea- 

spoonful of Leto half a pint of warm milk. 

—Lmco=l 

Local Agents:—COKNEI.d & CO., 20, Lower St. George’s Street, Cape Town. 

Printed and Published 0 VEHEMENT GAZETTE” Press, Zanzibar. 

THE GAZETTE 

FOR ZANZIBAR. 

VOL. XXI. No. 1050] MONDAY, MARCH 11, 1912. [PRICE 12 CENTS. 

fftato’s iAltijrams. 

4th March. 

The Suffragettes. The Militant Members 
of this female movement, it appears, armed them- 
selves with hammers concealed in their reticules, 
then they assailed the windows of the shops in 
the leading streets of the West End in the busiest 
time of the day. The shopkeepers and the Police 
were taken by surprise, and had no time to act 
on the defensive. The wanton damage thus 
caused is estimated at several thousands of pounds 
sterling. 

Mistress Pankhnrst herself then motored to 
the residence of the i rime Minister and broke 
the windows there, with stones. One hundred 
and fifteen arrests were made. 

Mrs. Pankhurst and the other leaders of the 
window smashing campaign have mostly been 
sentenced to two months imprisonment. The 
Police have estimated the damage at over £5,000. 
The Public Prosecutor dwelt on the disgraceful 
scenes of well educated and tenderly nurtured 
women breaking windows to further their cause. 
He laid considerable emphasis on the fact that 
the time had come to inflict the maximum sent- 
ence of imprisonment, those cases where the 
damage was over £5 were sent to a Higher Court 
to be dealt with. 

Coal Strike. It is stated in Cardiff that the 
reason for the suspension of negotiations is to 
enable the men’s delegates to obtain the views 
of the different districts on the subject of a fair 
day’s work guarantee. Mr. Asquith is insisting 
that this difficulty should he satisfactorily met 
before he proceeds with his Bill in the House of 
Commons. 

Telegrams coming in from the Coalfields show 
that the men are conducting themselves in the 
most orderly manner. There is a prevalent belief 
that the strike will not be prolonged, though the 
Coalowners are not so optimistic. 

As an instance of the paralysis already affecting 
Trade, twenty thousand workers were idle in 
Glasgow on Friday, also a hundred thousand 
shipbuilders on the Clyde will be idle in a week. 
The price of Bunker Coal has risen, in some of 
the Continental Ports, to double the usual figure. 
Mr. W. E. Harvey, the Labour Member for 
Eckington, on being interviwed, said, “We are 
/j not in a hurry like the Kailwaymcn the strike will 
' continue for a long time”. 

The Great Central Railway has refused to give 
up coal in transit over their Lines, declaring that 
the Company has Statutory Powers.to seize it for 
their own uses. 

The Radical Papers, on Priday, were acclaim- 
ing the victory of the men, to-day they condemn 
“their great mistake” in not accepting a com- 
promise whereby they are the gainers, and 
declare that the men are acting in disregard to 
to the National Interests. 

The effects of the strike are already beginning 
to he felt and are daily widening. Tens of 
thousands are idling in the various industries, the 
Docks and the Trawlers are especially affected, the 
prices of food are rising. The strikers are show- 
ing excellent law-abiding qualities. They have 
passed resolutions in some districts thanking the 
authorities for not sending extra police, thus 
assuring the peacefulness of the speeches. Inter- 
views with the Englishmen’s leaders indicate the 
feeling of the men that it was a mistake to reject 
the Government proposals. 

Mr. Davies, one of the miners delegates to 
London, speaking at Ebbwvale, said that Mr. 
Asquith said something important, which had 
hitherto not been published, namely, the day is 
not far distant when the Government will make 
themselves responsible for a minimum wage to 
all workers of the country. 

Mr. John Williams, the Labour Member for 
Gower, in a speech in West Wales said that he 
expected a settlement of the strike on the 7th. 
March, on mutually satisfactory lines. 

In Norway 2,0U0 workmen have received a 
fortnight’s notice on account of the British Strike. 
There is a complete stoppage of the Scottish 
Coalfields, the non-Unionists have joined the 
strikers, the position is of the gravest nature. 
Part of the Miners and GO,000 Steel and other 
Workers are idle. 

The Irish steamer service has been reduced. 
German Sympathy. Reuter’s Agent at Bo 
chum reports that the German Miners Federa- 
tion make an appeal to the miners to desist from 
working overtime during the prevalence of the 
strike in England. The Members of the Pedera- 
tiou are proceeding to hold numerous meetings 
at the Ruhr Coalfield to-morrow, to discuss the 
wage question, then to submit their demands to 
the Owners, whose answer is required by the 5th 
March. 

The Vorwaerts states that the Schichan 
miners, at Elbing, have decided by 3,000 to 600 
votes, to have a strike. 

Morocco. Reuter’s Agent at Casablanca re- 
ports that the French have been heavily engaged 
round the rebellious tribesmen at Sukelarba, 
many of the latter were left dead on the field. 
The French losses were 6 killed and 30 wounded. 
China. Reuter’s Agent at Peking telegraphs 
that Yuan-shi-kai has sent a communique to the 
Foreign Residents expressing his regret at the 
unexpected ^disturbances and saying that every 

