10 

THE GAZETTE. 

fever, mosquito, ami other disagreeables finding no field 
for their operations in this pure atmosphere. The people 
were formerly rich in cattle, until the plague which 
decimated their herds made its appearance a short time 
ago. Even now they have plenty of sheep and goats, 
whoso flesh is excellent eating owing to the rich 
pasturage on which they browse. The station itself is 
well supplied with cattle, sheep, and goats as well as 
donkeys, which have been purchased from the Masai. 
The cattle enclosure is outside the fort, and is strongly 
•constructed of stout, pointed palisades, and the interior 
is arranged with a view of securing the health and 
comfort of its inmates. On the lower part of the southern 
aspect of the hill on which the fort is built a well- 
stocked garden of English vegetables lias been laid out. 
and 1 have thoroughly enjoyed the delightful change of 
diet afforded me by the produce of this garden since my 
arrival. I was also shown some barley which had been 
grown, and which seemed to have a good car. On the 
opposite slope is another clearance being prepared for 
sowing, and between the two is a stream of good water, 
which has been conveyed from a distance by an artificial 
channel. The whole gives evidence of energetic interest 
and endeavours to make the most of the situation. 
The only mineral wealth that has up till now been 
observed in the district, which is geologically of compa- 
ratively recent volcanic origin, is iron ore, of good 
quality. This is smelted out by the natives for the 
purpose of making their spear heads, simes. and hoes for 
cultivating their plantations with, and in addition they 
make a rough imitation of the i; senenge,” or iron wire 
brought from the coast, which forms such an important 
adjunct to their personal adornment. 
From the country 1 will now turn to the people them- 
selves, who are, ns I have already said, a peei’iinrly bad 
and treacherous lot. The men arc of medium stature, 
very ugly, and decidedly negroid in appearance. They 
go naked, with the exception of a small cloak of skin, 
worn over one shoulder, and their weapons are bows and 
poisoned arrows, broad-bladcd stabbing spears, the sum-, 
and a buffalo-hide shield of large dimensions. Brass and 
iron wire, and beads, are their chief ornaments, and these 
are worn round the neck, arms, and wrist s, and in the ears. 
The women tooare by no means proposscssingin appearan- 
ce. They ape the Masai women a good deal in their dress. 
l)eing decently clothed in skins. They also shave their 
heads and wear collars of brass and iron wire round their 
necks, together with the spirally-twisted brass earrings 
which are affected by the Masai women. They partake 
of the same thievish and cowardly nature as' the men 
and by their wiles have on more than one occasion lured 
thoughtless porters to their deaths. No traveller who 
has ever entered Kikuyu has had anything but a bad 
account to give of these wretches. They have amply 
justified the character which has generally been given 
them, and which has shown itself on several occasions 
since the company first established a station in their 
midst. They are at deadly enmity with the Masai, who 
have over and over again attempted to penetrate the 
forest fastnesses which surround the country, but hitherto 
without success, the Wa-Kikuyu having proved more 
than a match for them on each occasion. The aspect of 
affairs, however, is now considerably altered for the better 
under the vigorous administration of Captain Nelson, who 
has taught the people one or t wo salutary lessons, which 
they stood in great need of, and which they arc notlikelv 
o forget in a hurry. 
Waniaeko, to whom T have already referred, was at the 
bottom of ell the villainy that went on. as has been 
proved by the statements made by the people since 
his death, which occurred a short time ago. He 
was directly responsible for the murder of several 
porters, and for the attack made upon Mr. Wilson, 
who then commanded the former station at Dagoretii 
He would have treacherously murdered tho Euro- 
peans and t he garrison stationed here at, Fort Smith 
had he been able to do so. His villainy, however, ulti- 
mately recoiled on his own fate and led to his death, 
which took place in the following manner. He appeared 
one day at the fort, and began to jeer at Mr. Pur kiss 
“bout an attack which had been planned and carried 
out on the Kugulu, a clan living to the north of the 
station. The Itugulus had been guilty of the murder of 
the head man. together with several porters, sent out for 
the purpose of collecting food, and the attack had failed 
owing to the treachery of Wnniackc, who had given the 
people warni ng to retire. Mr. Purkiss, knowing this, 
ordered him out of the room. Waniacke refused'to go! 
and became so insolent that Mr. Purkiss rose to put him 
out. He thereupon drew his sime and made a cut 
at Mr. Purkiss. who closed with him. wrenched the 
sword out of his hand, and, having got possession of it 
he cut Waniacke over the head with his own weapon! 
giving him a severe wound. Waniackc was put in chains! 
and. on his recovering sufficiently, was despatched to the 
coast under an escort. He died, however, at Kibwczi from 
dysentery on the road, and the country was well rid of a 
thorough scoundrel. The new Sultan is a very different 
kind of individual, and is on excellent terms with the 
Europeans and seems to be a very decent fellow in every 
way. a 

Much however, remains to be done in this densely- 
populated district, which has need of more stations than 
one. if the natives are to be thoroughly held in check ami 
the country rendered safe for the passage of small parties. 
At present there is a force of some 150 men in the fort 
(none too many), and the most unceasing vigilance has 
to he exercised all round, seeing that the natives cannot 
tic ti listed for a moment, and may break out again at any 
timi'. Cnravnns entering this district .ire warned to he 
specially on their guard, and under no circumstances are 
a few men to be detached for the purpose of sendin" 
messages or other work. From what. I gather, the com" 
pany has thoughts of reducing the strength of the gar- 
rison. which in my opinion would be the height of folly, 
as in that ease the lives of the Europeans "would 
not be worth much, and the man who would remain 
m the country on those conditions would be a very 
foolhardy person. Far from reducing the force they 
already have in the country, they should place other 
forts and garrisons in the various districts. Such retro- 
gressive measures arc not calculated to effect substantial 
improvements amongst people like the Wa-Kikuvu. who 
would only too gladly avail themselves of their 
freedom from all restraint, and their last state 
would be infinitely worse than the first. Captain Nelson 
propounded what seemed to me a very sensible and 
feasible scheme of facilitat ing the transport of goods to 
Uganda at a very much reduced cost, com pared with the 
present rates, by a system of post stations along the 
route, he himself undertaking to work this system from 
Machakos to Kavirondo, were his force here to be in- 
creased to 250 men. There is no ostensible reason why 
a train of donkey wagons should not be run from Ma- 
chakos up through the Masai country, in the same 
manner as is practised in South Africa. ‘ This would be 
an immense saving in labour, the country being in all' 
respects suitable to the adoption of this method of I 
transport, for only in very few places does it offer any 1 
natural obstacles, and these could easily be overcome 
by any one who was acquainted with the manage- 
ment of this system of working. As the company is at 
present endeavouring to economize in cverv way pos- 
sible in consequence of the additional great strain uiion 
their resources in occupying Uganda, it would he well 
wort h their while to give attention to any such schemes 
which are likely to show a saving in the cost of 
transport and can in any wey help to relax the tension 
now being put upon them. 
Shortly after my arrival at Fort Smith, Dr. Macpher- 
son came in on his way to the coast from U<mnda 
where things seem to have been in a far from satisfac- 
tory condition at the time of his departure. Captain 
'v dliams had been very seriously ill from hreuiaturia 
and was anxious to leave ns soon as possible. His health is 
in a critical state, necessitating a thorough change so 
that in all probability I may meet him on his" way 
down. Major Smith and his party hail arrived in 
Kavirondo, at Kwa Sundu, on November 13. Having 
come down rid Baringo, Dr. Macpherson had seen or 
heard nothing about either Captain Macdonald. R. E.. 
or Bishop Tucker and the mission caravan, ns they had 
gone up by the new route over Mau escarpments 
though t hey must doubtless have arrived before this in 
Kayirondo. Dr. Mncphcrson’s arrival is most timely 
fra- Captain Nelson, who I trust will now make '.oral 
Pi'ORrcss ami soon he himself again nntlcr proper meili- 
cal treatment. 
The latest information about Emin Pasha is that he 
became totally blind and died on bis way down the 
Congo, but there is nothing to vouch for the authenticity 
of this rumour. Another report states that he met his 
death at the hands of the Manyucnia slave-hunters, but 
here again there is nothing to prove the fact, and mere 
rumours go for nothing out in Africa. I myself have 
been dead before now. 
1 have to remain here for three or four davs in order 
to collect skins from the Masai with which to make 
pack saddles for the donkeys that will have to accom- 
pany me in order to carry food, as I intend going 
up the new route to Kavirondo. This will necessitate 
my starting with 25 days’ food in hand. There is 
no prospect of my writing again for some time to 
come as I do not know when, where or how 1 
slmll get another chance of sending further news 
down to the coast though I shall lose no opportuni- 
ty of doing so. The weather is fine and bright, mv 
men have improved, and things look generallv more 
cheerful and satisfactory.—The Times. 

EMIN PASHA. 

A special correspondent of the Jterlitier Tun hlatt in 
East Africa, who telegraphed last July that Emin Pasha 
had been murdered, has now sent a letter from Fort 
Knmpnli Ug(mcln,dat«l Dec. 14, in which he report-, 
tiiat Avail Etrendi. iormerly mnnagerof a magazine in 
Equatoria. has made following statement:  
On March 0 Emin Pasha marched with some Manve 
mas in the direction of the Congo, after having con* 
eluded blood, brotherhood with an Arab named Bivan * 
On the same day Avad left Emin to return to Kampala' 

    17tk May 1893- 
and stayed twenty-eight days with Kitunzi, a dndrain 
of higher rank than the Chieftain Kavalli. On April l 
he received from a brother of Masamboni, known from 
.Stanleys description, news that some Manyemas, who 
had bought ivory in his village, had stated that the and 
all his people had been murdered by Manyemas under 
Ismail a Yali of Said Ben Habib, of Zanzibar, on the 
River I tun, about-two days’ march from Masambonie, on 
-March 12 or 13. 
The correspondent adds that this news became known 
at Kampala about the middle of August, and was 
omeially communicated to the British East Africa 
Company at Mombasa, and that Mr. Stokes was proha- 
bly, at the tune of his writing, between Toro or the Salt 
bake and Kavalli, perhaps at Kavalli itself. The cor- 
respondent believed that Mr. Stokes would send news of 
the incidents in question to Kampala as soon as lie heard 
anything trustworthy. He adds that he would have 
sent express messengers for further information himself 
hail he been able to spare any of his five armed men. In 
conclusion ho expresses the hope that the sad tidings of 
Emin s death may once more prove false. In cherishing 
tins hope he is supported by the opinion of the most 
eminent experts here. They do not believe that Emin 
£ rc;lson tortheir incredulity is the success 
achieved by Kerchoven against the Mahdists, which would 
probably not have been so rapidly gained if Emin had 
not put him m connection with the natives. This will 
also furnish a plausible explanation of the fact that no 
news about Emin has arrived since August or Septem- 
.HrnnHvV8 impossible for him to send letters 
directly from the Upper Nile. 

A well ventilated and dry godown. For 

FOE RENE 

particulars, applj- to 

ARNOLD, CHENEY & CO. 

Sr Sll-MSd <Hll aniHiy' qtj eflyet vpj 

jto, 

Messrs. VI8RAM EBRAHIM 

and Company. 

NOTICE. 

S. S. “ Swordsman” will take cargo 
lor London, Marseilles and Hamburg 
The above Company’s 
now and fast steamer 
“ Swordsman.” Captain 
McDermott, will sail for Bombay 
direct on Monday the 22nd May. 

Cargo can also be booked for Lon- 
don, Marseilles and Hamburg-, tran- 
shipment at Bombay. 
^ I or freight & jiassag-e, apply prompt- 

SULEMAN DA WOOD, 

Agent. 

* "ui * 

•vrutfi yfiRi “ > 
nfegi. 5l° dl ddl aHH ajiy ylstd 
" yHWWk ” iMrtH >1 
m&gg? Hien in vsttAd 
yRIR dloWHl 5$ ^ 
ShH <V?i. 
'■'Hdl yiil yie-t SHl-Ri any d uyd -ycRfo 
sw. 

c-Ot-M, •‘tRysty, (ly-dw ysy 

lilVJd y.'mi glH aHtpy yiyy^; 
5V3 §1H d^HlSt dly y^l yc-f 

<tw 'ysiyyy sfl dai. 

dlC-Ml (Hit yioji Silai y%t§. 

SWa. 

Vol. 2—No. 69 

24th MAY, 1893. 

“CJjs 0a^tte” 

FOR ZANZIBAR AND EAST AFRICA. 

Zanzihak, 24th May, 1893. 

REUTER'S TELEGRAMS. 
London, 17th May 1893. 

Mr. S. C. Buxton, Parliamentary Secretary to 
the Colonial Office, stated in the House that he 
believed a satisfactory settlement would be arrived 
at regarding Swaziland, but he would make a fur- 
ther statement when public interest permits him 
to do so. 
The City of Melbourne Bank has suspended 
payment. At the instance of the Bishop of Mel- 
bourne, to-morrow will be observed in the Church 
as a day of humiliation in consequence of the severe 
financial troubles in which Australia has recently 
been plunged. 
An immense meeting of Archbishops, Bishops, 
Clergy and Laymen has been held in the Albert 
Hall to protest against the Welsh Suspensory Act. 
The amendment of Mr. Victor C. W. Cavendish 
M. P. for Derby, to clausa 2, demanding a defini- 
tion of the matters, with which the Irish Parliament 
will be empowered to deal, lias been rejected by a 
majority of 47. The Radicals, Messrs. Samuel 
Storey, M. P., for Sunderland, and William 
J acks for Sterlingsbire, both voted in the minority. 
The Standard, in a leading article, says that the 
failure of the Queensland National Bank, must 
seriously affect the Queensland Government. The 
Bank of England cannot lend its aid. 

18th May 1898. 

The Royal Bank of Queensland has suspended 
payment, pending the reforming of its capital. 
The amendment of Sir Henry James affirming 
the supremacy of the Imperial Parliament, has 
been accepted by Mr. Gladstone and adopted. 
Clause 2 of the Home-rule Bill has also been 
adopted. After the movement of the closure, the 
debate was adjourned till the 80th instant. 
The drought which lias prevailed in England for 
eleven weeks has broken, and has been superseded 
hv plentiful .rains everywhere : it is feared they 
have arrived too late to save the crops. 

months hence. 

Mr. S. C. Buxton, replying to questions 
asked in the House, stated that emigration 
was the onl}* reined)'1 for the distress preva- 
lent at St. Helena ; perhaps the admiralty 
would allow the troopships to take further 
emigrants to the Cape. Tha questions of 
Zululand, including the position of the 
Dinizulus, would be carefully considered, but 
an early decision was improbable. 

Discount rate, four per cent. 

20th May 1893. 

The Stock Exchange has improved all 
round , the papers are hopeful that the worst 
of the Australian crisis is over. Large pur- 
chases of Australian stock, by Insurance 
Companies and investors, have had a most 
excellent effect. 
Mr. S. C. Buxton stated that the Chief 
Dinizulu and the others would return to 
Zululand before very long, but not in the 
same position as they formerly were. 
Senor Ennes has returned* to Lisbon after 
long negotiations with Major Leverson at the 
Foreign Office; nothing, however, has been 
settled regarding the Boundary question. 
The House of Commons has adjourned 
till the 29th instant. 

22nd May 1893. 

Fifteen thousand persons paraded in Hyde 
Park yesterday, in favour of the Home-rule 
Bill. It was resolved to support Mr. Glad- 
stone in his noble work of ending the conflict 
between the English and Irish people. The 
meeting condemned the obstruction of the 
Conservatives, and welcomed the prospect 
of a conflict of power between the People and 
the Peers. 

The Cricket match between the M. C. C. 
and Australians resulted in a draw, amidst 
great exitement, the Club had fourteen runs 
to get, and two of the weakest wickets of the 
side to fall. 

19th May 1893. 

The Prince of Wales held a brilliant recep- 
tion on Wednesday night at the Royal 
Institute ; twenty thousand persons were 
present. Mr. Gladstone, whilst walking with 
the Royal Party through the courts was 
loudly hissed. 
At* a meeting of the Aborigines Protec- 
tion Society the secretary was authorized to 
state that the wishes of the Society regarding 
the Zulu exiles, would be gratified in a few 

S3n! Man ISOS. 

A train, laden with pigs, having two passen- 
ger carriages attached, whilst descending the 
mountain railway near Tralee the brakes failed 
to act: the engine and seven trucks were 
hurled forty feet into a river. The driver 
and two stokers were killed ; the remainder 
of the train came olf the rails and was smash- 
ed, eleven of the passengers being injured. 

ONE ANNA 

3 it R «il <11 

C-t'4-t, Ulo tuHl 41 t<rt3. 

viMl'dl SHUflyril MRC-uk'iH 

HU Sty. *A. VHML -V13U4*! VJ s 
tMuJlai-Mt yAyyi yRuisiu dlYA Sin 
R Motrii C-tUM vtW< StfeJ dWrit o'ljll 
't'tl'fl rid cropsl cUR' rt M-tR SWl. 
dc-UlDM rtlrilril Sr-U'-t Ah 'fL 
Hl». SUlSUVMl Itl 
=Hl dli’h i? riWji y'ut'tfl JRfSiflMi 
■nwS rt yfi ^slmt wwfl mn-ii 
=MR 6. 
itWl MRc-uit irii ystiys HU Hu>a* HI. 
iutety. iU-tlltl Hk-tHl Hlo ic-iy yfi =Ji 
d'iil'A yYld HUSU'HAO hi h’S "U«iEldl 
'yiHvl rt Hlsy SV-dHt rii 
ylifl sfltfl 6dl n Vis qa v. ti- 
Virij qq svsuqvs i, sHHyc-tiAHl d 
yqc-t id i qiqqiHl sHMyt-tiAHl yuud Hiit dfii 
diijqdi tTyst'A dd hss txl aiwi 
^ Hlfl. 

S- 

UU tiHl d xm. 
iHi>ty«iAHi >d'i digtHi tiqitiqi yiti^t 
i^qwi sqid ctqi yHl qua' irua y'H Yl 
MRC-ud'A tJ'qc-tiiHl qti 

c-ud'i qfi yni nud ’d'h hx §qR 
yi ’-Hd'id'i HU iiauyAd saI d ydia. 
ti-Jtd' S. §iy?a WlaHl HIjs Jay qiji y^ta yy 
qiyi ^iHl B. 5l qtfl §iyxa Hla sq^Hl q'a ai 
y? ytaai ytyfl rtu 30^ jjHl ^-1141 ^fyaiyi 
yudl ijdl. 
Bai ytquqi yHl q^yu.yi Sjiyiiti H 
Adi licti ddl (4d -y rt »tiqdl B =yd c\h 
attsH aiyis HAat yiAdi B; yiji StHi uiydl 
yqiyi =yiqB "i q=.yis aiali didi MAqiHl mu 
yHl tibd yS. 

ctu te'Hl d tAA3. 
ytySR iflyy day yyi <3ttqi< =id yq 
a tly^Ridiyi y-, dfit dsuqdi s-.di tidt, w 
dyi yyi^ dR.i yusidt dyi qqt 6di. Hlo 
yaiAyzy yistmfl ytd 5y ilyyiliaiyi ^ 
yi drti d dyi- disi=y diisft “ ifly tily ” yi dt 
Mri i41 dydi dltysR. sVdt &di. 
=yiyHl yyiyi yqidiyt «/qiy =yiyriL 
Hlo 5iy. ^Cl. yyid wiiiiqii' = yd §Aflyt Hid 
^aw-at y'si yiddt =yHdi @hih ■•d-o' B f titM 
St ^41 Slit Mvlly HlsHl dtAlS q^ Htmdl 
d SH -and ay srqi tqlHl ytaiy^fl StqwHl'yt 
sj" isw dwiHl yyqirtd atiHl ysd. ^aaiAb a 
yni am ymd anai yaiai y'yi 
adi 41HR i^qiyi dyt 3Adt rrafldl 
HtJ ysyiq ydl. 

'JA/iiVl U’i 

dto 5l \<'cz.' 
oiiat nt.'i <jUxg' a’iddi Mdi »tuii 
s ^i^ndt dlttii y'ln'tfl Mtrflhi 
5Jt d ^U'-HU S. ody'dy iHH-hStl rt*ll 'Uta’ i 
dRiSii ati^s-a^wi Si-Ji.fl ^ia iv-mft h 
lifl aw drurs _ 
VUV"*- W * dW I Cape'early^nexTmonth 
dl y-.r.P. rt’tl oflMMl Mitsui Mid r/st4l«fl uitsl TMt S “ " . , 

‘ Philomel ” 
“ MTidgeon ’ 
“ Blanche ” 
“ Sparrow ” 
Raleigh 

(Flag of Admiral 
Bedford) is expected to arrive here from the 

IT.M.S. 
H.M.S. 
H.M.S. 
H.M.S. 
H.M.S. 

in harbour. 

Are all 

^ '4'’1 ^ ^ j ^1'0m f lic Cape 13 n°W 0,1 ‘Cr 1CrC 

_ SHly yi5i a'ouiei y->^u [ 
5dt 5(5(ld<U h«l i-flyutd 'HlSt S3.^l 8; 'tlil V=.tS. 
Sd «tddl y-tisthl slu dldSl S’Uci'ii ^sfl. ‘ j 
=dWdl you suc-tdl diydl dto VAfl ytn n«\ 
rtdl =ta B. 

dlo '*i Ki3' 
- „ 't^4_ d'd dtj Sl5t Vs? lisd? dllil?ll §m 
3.5t ofladt ct?sm Mdl uii Qlot| ii;^! 
u 5im _aHia<l?i itiaSu -?=iui 'jm ami 
d Hddi Susi ilHHi Hlo oictuy^uu HSS S?1!^! 
4?i--t d>h j|di. idy?dfl?i^ §m3c-t oflaui 
d dPa S d dii youSi 'tiuiui dl?yii? omia*li 
lidi Mu h*d ddt =dHl<l -?31 yrtlui olimui a’d3, 
^KdiMaidl S5ij dlSiMmi ui? oaous-n omidi i4dl 

Exciiaxgk Rate. 

Chartered Bank of fialia, Australia and 
Demand on London:—Rs..10-3-0 per 0. 
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 

Cliina 

Week exdikg 22xd May 1803. 
Temperatures 

Tuesday. 
W ednesday. 
Thursday. 
Friday. 
Saturday. 
Sunday. 
Monday. 

Barometer 
.'fay. 8 a.n 
1C 30.01)1 75.1 83.0 
17 30.171) 77.8 81.2 
18 30.11)7 70.8 82.2 
11) 30.11)1 70.0 82.0 
20 30.143 77.0 84.3 
21 30.135 77.8 84.8 
22 30.121 77.2 84.7 

max. min. 
8 a.m. 24 lirs. 24 hrs, 
72.3 
75.8 
75.5 
75.4 
75.4 
70.8 
70.0 

Rain. 
inches 
1. 01) 
0. 00 
0. 00 
0. 00 
0. 10 
0. 00 
0. 00 

24th May 18ji3 
<3«t ?t'aaS. ~ 

I’ROPOSKD ENGLISH SETTLEMENT. 

A NEW AFRICAN EXPEDITION. 
The advance portion of an expedition left 
London recently for Mozambique, where it i3 
intended to form an English settlement. It is 
proposed to colonise nearly 300 square miles of 
territory between the rivers Zambesi anil Sabi 
acquired by the •* Premier Concessions of Mocam- 
liiqae Company,” and confirmed bv the Anglo-Por- 
tuguese Convention of 18!ll. Captain L. F 
Spring, the chief of the. expedition, in an inter- 
view with a Central News reporter, said : •• 1 
propose to farm a township as near as possible to 
tlie Beira Railway, the road will be speedily con- 
structed and an English community will soon be 
located upon the spot where Gm.gunlmna once had 
las kraal. Farms are to be laid out at once by our 
surveyor Mr. Gan-und, and exploration parties 
will be formed to prospect for gold and other 
precious metals with which the district abounds. 
I know the whole country, and have no fear for 
the health of the expedition, otherwise I should 
not he taking my wife with me. The coast at 
certain points is not inviting, hat the elevated 
plateaus inland are especially salubrious. As a 
matter of fact, this new settlement will be in 
better touch with English than many of the more 
widely-known South African settlements, and 1 
confidently expect a great influx of white popula- 
tion into tliis favoured land within a very short 
period. I. am convinced that it will become in- 
dustrially and commercially important.” 
Captain Spring lias bceii appointed Civil Com- 
missioner and resident magistrate for the district. 
The remaining portion of the expedition, with all 
the necessary equipments for pioneer life, will sail 
within a few days.—The Mnnihig Poet, 

dl° ?iMl ii 1^43- 
_ 5ji Ud, i>di Sdl^Sitdl 5l uth 
Ml Hl?l lidl,_ rl dlSft Mldd MluSU d-Slli!=llSll Ml 
sl SMitfl dial Srtldl !idl rt unilSi er 
disfl adS3d d«tt oflM’ is auiiSli auaflli iflidl Si' 
MUaad'fl dflui Vi airii ^ui. nm ^ 5| j 
MldUlStlSll Hl?dl aim ltdl M'd ddul Mlhul Ml 
d ^-tddl dUl M?!fl M?tt dhl uSl dih ouilSildl1 
JS31 rtlT Stdl ddl ddl M=ftMl? ®dl3M!u «t! 
tT itrfl. 

EAST AFRICAN NEWS. 

LOCAL NEWS. 

To-day heing the soventy-fourth anniver- 
sary of Queen Victoria’s birthday will bo 
celebrated by a Review of the Troops, while 
an At Home will be held by Mr. Rennell 
Rodd, II. M. Diplomatic Agent, at the Bri- 
tish Agency in the evening. 

There have been no inward or outward 
mails since our Inst issue: the next mail 'from 
Europe is not due until the 8()th inst. while 
the next mail to Europe will not leave here 
until the 3rd prox. 

The death of Khoja Musablini Tharia 
reported in our lust issue bus necessitated the 
appointment of another executor in his place 
for the administration of the will of the lute 
Sir Thariu Topun, Kt. An application in this 
matter was made to Judge Craeknall on 
Saturday lasl, and Mr. de Suusmarez has 
been appointed provisionally to pass receipts 
for moneys received and due to the estate in 
i] uestion. Great progress is being made with 
th(' Sir Tharia Hospital at Mlindi, which adds 
much to the appearance of the beach at Mlin- 
di. Mr. 1-. I’ordage has accepted the appoint- 
ment _ of Superintendent of Works at this 
Hospital. 

With the advent of the cool season cricket 
is again coming to the fore: the Zanzibar 
Cricket Club commeneed practising last week 
and a ‘ scratch ’ match was played between 
naval officers and town residents last Satur- 
day afternoon. 

• ' m2 I 80-181 70.9 83.8 '75.8   
q, ; rw^! >•«» 
letal Rainfall to 80th April, Inches 84 7!l 

P. CHARLES WORTH 

HIGH WATER AT ZANZIBAR. 

Morning 

Afternoon 
| Date h. m. h. m. 
May 24 8 34 9 4 
.. 25 9 32 9 59 
„ 2(1 .10 25 10 50 
>. 27 11 14 ii se 
„ 28 11 57 0 17 
.. 29 0 35 0 51 
.. 40 1 ,7 1 23 
.. 41 1 39 I 56 
Phases of the moon :■ „ 

22nd, Full moon on the 30th. 

-First Qunter on the 

A. Le. P. AGNEW, 

Port Officer. 

aim ‘“fiiiivfl 

MhQi M^ll Mi Mg'? Ridl AU9 M3 
i?U Mil'll U8fl ‘du Mil»fl ^IMul 'ini list 
Mill U8H; Mltrll 5lc-t Mittal my 
al aio 2oHt ijtR uso 
a?'iR v/ai Rtt &i Miadl au sa aval? 5. 

^amti? Hisi?uj(l<fl mi»v sfla isviti a??!^ yia 
IMWA «t?li?dl itlMS «l?[ all yi-S> MlMWl 
iiaytt Sa?«t '*{1= Via ?-ii aflR?i %ea?aai it 
iKui Mi daiiii i?at? s. 

^ 5ilM (tydOlUa tltflMMi Vliisn andl MlSfl M 
44ft v/iiim H?ai? *? m^Mi jUMa atbQai q?n 
Maamtai atflai i?ai? Sis mim M'dUisWt Tin 
las Hal'd «Y3? wiiiitf 5. i1<tl qioi-a^ ^ 
■tl MM RHI vriw IR, s<sasta M?a- S?ami M1 
dl Udl, vraQ ifl, y, iQi^i^Tj 5i 
stsaai ansii aMya s?ai dfiRq, rt^i avr-uni 
M? m^lMi aiRa a nil 
MIM fliia j sw ^ls MRC? q?iv5 sqii 
MRC-WI S?:n ida.?idl ??iaiHi qyQi s | 
?lMal? 
avMiajdi aflidl aM^s Mlo Ms. ijiidip , 

PROGRESS IN ZANZIBAR. 

Tile Despatches on the Zanzibar Protectorate, 
one of which appeared in our columns yesterday, 
are well worthy of study by the few who still doubt 
the advantages of British Rule in Africa. Until the 
year 1800, our influence in the Arab Sultan’s 
Dominions was simply that of the nation doing the 
greatest, amount of business with his capital, and 
whose Political Agent had most readily the ear of 
the Ruler. This . prevented any serious outrages 
taking place—openly : and thanks to the Treaty 
which Sir Bartle Frcre somewhat forcibly persuaded 
Seyd Burgas!i to sign, the old slave market and the 
dhows full of black chattels from the mainland 
disappeared tor years before we bad the formal 
right to dictate our will to the Sovereign. Vet. as 
Sir Gerald Portal tells us in his admirable summary 
of the financial status of Zanzibar, there was not 
until the agreement recognising the Protectorate 
was signed in October, 1891, any Government 
which could he called organised. As in most unre- 
fonned Oriental despotisms, the Sultan was, like 
Louis Quatorze. “the Government,” and the swarm 
of adventurers from Muscat ami the Hadramaut 
coast were the channels through which his 
revenue passed, and, it is unnecessary to add, to 
which a large amount of it clung in transitu. The 
Zanzibar Sultan had always been rich, and though 
he made no pretence of keeping accounts, while 
any thing which Could he termed statistics was 
undreamt of, he could well aflord to be robbed bv 
bis retainers. Duties were levied, not only on foreign 
goods, but upon all the merchandise from the 
mainland, as the only way of collecting taxes from 
the Arab ivory and slave traders who wandered 
through the dominions of the Sultan as far as Lake 
1 anganyika—which, though discovered by Burton, 
was well known to the caravan leaders long before 
he and Speke set forth to find it. Every slave paid 
two dollars a head to the Sultan, and his private 
chest was the sole Government Treasury. Ivory ami 
S'lm also contributed to his revenue, and the clove 

RESOURCES 

ZANZIBAR AND PEMBA ISLANDS. 

(From Mr. Fitzgerald’s Report.) 

(Continued from our last issue.) 

drat thousand rupees ; and, finally, the dividends the money thus saved has boon laid out onremu-' 
from the two hundred thousand pounds paid by i nerntivo works, and there is every prospect that 
Germany for her share of the Zanzibar mainland j before long the finances of Zanzibar will 
again 
complete the island income. In this way there is j become flourishing.—27'c Overland Mail. 

No attempts at manufacture and export of tapio- 
ca, “the farinaceous matter of the roots, separated 
and converted into a kind of starch,” have ever 
been made. 
As interesting, I quote below the London ruling 
prices in May last: — 

Prices per Lb. 
From— To— 
d d 
Singapore  Ij- H 
Penang   1§ 

Maize. 

1,373 bags pearl (fourth sold) medium, 12.-’.(iJ. 
to 13.?.; dull, li.?. Or/, to 12.?.; bullet, lls.tid. per cwt. 
Maize, or Indian corn, does not appear to be so 
extensively cultivated as cassava, aud wherever 
growing its cultivation appears generally to be com- 
bined with dry rice. 
“ A sandy loam is the soil best suited for maize. 
. . . As a fodder crop its yield is enormous. 
An acre of land has borne from 50,000 lbs. to 
80,000 lbs. of green fodder, or from 8,000 lbs. to 
12,000 lbs. of dry feed The meal of 
the corn is extremely nutritious, as it contains four 
times more oils than wheat, more starch, and almost 
as much nitiogenous matter.”—Haldane’s “Sub- 
Tropical Cultivation.” 
Of other grain cultivation, “mtama” or millet 
does not appear to be cultivated much, if at all, at 
present, though previously a good deal of land was 
taken up with this product. 
Some other small varieties arc also cultivated in 
a small degree. “Wimbi”. a small variety of 
millet, minute grain, “kimanga”; and“ mware.” 

Cassava. 

THE GAZETTE 

AGRICULTURAL 
OF 

24tb May 1893 
tax made Seyd Btirgash and Ids brothers—as it 
will make their present successor—wealthy, for 
petty African Kings. Then came evil days fo 
the 
Sultan, though good ones for all his subjects, except 
the “irregular soldiers” who battened on his bountv 
. , a surplus of revenue over expenditure of more than '   
and subsisted by plundering Ins subjects in his j thirteen thousand five hundred rupees, without the j 
name. 1 he Germans had for long been of very new taxes hurting anyone, a claim which could not 
small consequence in Zanzibar island or town, | be made on behalf of the majority of the imposts 
though the Hamburg merchants did, perhaps, after that they displaced. Customs duties have been 
ourselves, the largest amount of trade with the 
abolished, and the slight deficit in the old estimated 
port. But little by little, in spite of Sir John Kirk 
revenue, as roughly calculated, is met by a reduction 
and his successors in the Consulate General acting 
of extravagant expenditure. At the same time, 
as the virtual Grand Viziers, the Germans pushed 
public works have been paid for out of income, and 
their way, until, by virtue of a concession obtained 
will return good interest in all future years. The 
from the Sultan they administered the richest 
“ irregular soldiers ” have been promptly disestab- 
portion of his dominions, while the remainder on 
lished (and disendowed), and their extremely 
the mainland was leased to an English Company. 
irregular pay devoted to improving the excellent 
Then, for the first time in the sociaf history of the 
little force so long under the command of General 
Zanzibar Palace, there was a scarcity of money in 
Mathews—a former English Naval Officer, who is 
the treasury, and a lack of things for the Muscatees 
now, happily for Zanzibar, the Sultan’s Prime 
to steal. A little later, and Seyd Ali bin Said would ! Minister. The streets are cleaned, the roads have 
have gone to the highest bidder. 
been macadamised, and a new gaol built, although 
the number of criminals is steadily diminishing. 
The only persons dissatisfied are the native rowdies. 
They and they alone, object to the new broom 
which has swept so clean, and it was they who 
tried, on the death of the late Sultan, to create a 
futile riot. Even the Saltan is not displeased. For 
if the roi faineant “ absorbs unremunerativcly,” as 
the actual Sovereign remarks, only half the revenue, 
he is paid regularly, and manages to get the full 
benefit of his four hundred and eighty-four thousand 
rupees. As it is, Seyd bin Thwain is young and 
tractable, and has begun well. Altogether, a 
perusal of the Zanzibar Parliamentary papers is a 
pleasant study for the Briton with a belief in . the 
mission of his country. For as Zanzibar is, so 
was will Egypt become, if only that genius for adminis- 
tration which is the birthright of our race is per- 
mitted a band as free from jealousy and obstruction 
as it has received in the East African Island- 
Kingdom.—The Standard 

Luckily, however, Lord Salisbury struck a 
bargain with the young Emperor, and we became 
the overlords, not only of the island and town of 
Zanzibar, but of a vast stretch of what was Zanzibar 
country in name only. Sir Gerald Portal, who, 
while at Cairo, had become familiar with the ways 
of the East, was selected to teach the Sultan a 
better way of controlling a Kingdom than that 
which he and his father had been accustomed to 
follow since the Arabs drove out the Portuguese. 
He began by raising a revenue which would profit 
the people as well as the palace. He was just in 
time. In a few months or more the whole island 
would have arrived at the state of bankruptcy to 
which it was fast drifting. What moneys could be 
collected by the most onerous of imports 
scarcely suffeient for the wants of the Sultan—the 
Sultanate was hardly considered—and of the 
clamorous horde of hangers-on who lived on his 
bounty, or squeezed a livelihood out of the fears 
of his oppressed subjects. As an imperative preli- 
minary, the Sultan was limited to that financial 
Sir Gerald Portal’s report on the administration 
institution, unknown in the East—a Civil List. 
of the Zanzibar protectorate, which has just been 
Like Mr. Mantalini, lie was “allowanced” to a 
issued as a Blue Book, is rather more readable 
fixed salary, paid punctuallyyw mensem. Accounts 
than the usual run of official papers dealing with 
were ordered to be kept, and in case the new ledgers 
this corner of Africa. Besides giving a clear and 
might not be written up punctually and faithfully, 
coherent account of the situation, it abounds in 
Englishmen, irremoveable except by the English 
happy, descriptive touches, which enable one to 
Consul General, were appointed to supervise every 
realise that the work on which this talented young 
department of the State. Thus Captain Hardinge 
diplomatist has been employed is not done by 
became Harbour Master, General Hatch Comman- 
machine. ‘We get vivid pictures, too, of the past 
der of the Troops and Police, and so forth ; and in 
and present state of the island In former times 
U3 ,Il“VC ,thf‘‘ first °4i:pnl I Zanzibar was ruled by despotic Sultans, surrounded 
repi 1 S i cw axes uere decreed, but taxes which , by a gang of Arab adventurers whose chief business 
oppressed no industry, and as something was given wuij fo extract as large a share as they could out of 
in re urn or hem, they were more cheerfully paid the revenues poured into the royal treasury. In 
than the old irregular exactions. Nearly all Customs spite of these peculations, the Sultan was a rich 
were abolished on foreign goods, and a small charge 
man : the duties on ivory, gum, and African pro- 
made for the use of a wharf. A hydrant and pipes 
duce, as well as European cloths, yielding a princely 
to water ships were laid down, with the result that 
revenue. The alienation of the rich half of his 
the Government earns thirteen hundred rupees a 
dominion to the Germans, and of a great part of 
month from this welcome improvement. A registra- 
the remainder to the English company, reduced his 
tion office, which prevents fraud and gets clear of 
income by about two-thirds. As nothing was done 
backsheesh, brings in another thousand rupees, and 
to lessen expenditure, the Sultan preferring to 
by the limitation of the sale of alcoholic liquors to 
live after the traditions of bis dynasty, financial 
respectable people paying a high licence, another 
embarrassments were inevitable ; and when Sir 
nine thousand finds its way into the treasury. A 
Gerald Portal arrived on Hie scene both the ruler 
trifling fee for declaring the nature of a cargo en- 
and his subjects were on the brink of insolvency. 
It may perhaps be asked whether former Political 
Agents and Consuls-Gcncral might not have endea- 
voured to prevent a crisis. The report clearly shows, 
however, that the matter has now been taken in 
hand seriously. Large reductions in the royal 
establishment have been effected ; and as the 
“ irregular soldiers,” retainers, and miscellaneous 
hangers-on at the Palace were a source of continued 
expense, trouble, and even danger, the dismissal 
of a great many of them is an economy which 
should be advantageous in every way. Some of 

The clove tax is naturally the chief source of 
revenue, lor it brings in more than four hundred 
and fifty thousand rupees a year. Then comes the 
British East Africa Company’s rent for the terri- 
tory it administers, amounting to nearly two hun- 

uient warehouse, and, finally, a gun licence help.? 
the Protectorate to pay its way without any honest 
man being one anna the worse. 

for 
Present prices are 

Beans and Peas 

Arrowroot. 

St. Vincents 
Other lots 

A variety of this is to be found in most native 
gardens, and named “ uwanga,” but which I do 
not think is the true arrowroot (“ Maranta arundi- 
nacca ”), the shape of the leaves differing, though 
the preparation of the roots appears to be the same; 
“ uwanga ” bearing a fleshy knotty root, which is 
ground and washed in repeated waters, and finally 
sun-dried. This preparation, mixed with sugar, 
forms a favourite sweetmeat with the Arabs. 
I see no reason why arrowroot should not be 
more extensively cultivated on the island, and form 
an article of export. The cultivation is easy, and 
immediate returns are obtained:— 
“ The plants are propagated by parting the roots. 
A light loamy soil is the most favourable for their 
growth. When they are a year old the roots are 
fit state 
use.”—Porter’s “ Tropical 
Agriculturist.” 

Several varieties of hese are grown. The most 
generally cultivated is the common “kunnde,” 
grown in the open fields, and bearing a large 
nutritious bean, which appears to be the principal food 
of the slaves ; there are, besides, “ fiwe,” a climbing 
plant, and “baazi,” apparently much esteemed, and a 
good deal cultivated either in proximity to houses 
or else in rows along the boundaries of fields. &c. 
The plant grows to the height of a small bush. 

Prices per Lb. 
From— 
To- 
d. 
5 Jr 

d. 
32 

r> ______   

Grous'd Nut. 

Of tiif! ground-nut (Ai fichi* hjipoyn'a') two varie- 
ties arc known locally—“ Mjngu Nyassa,” “Mjugu 
mawe.” 
The first is the ground-nut of commerce, the 
second yielding a smaller round nut, but also 
containing oil. 
At present no exports arc made, and the nuts 
appear to be only consumed as an article of food. 
The. cultivation is comparatively small, and 
appears to be more particularly confined to the 
country lying between Dunga and the capital. 
In my opinion the cultivation of the product 
could be very largely extended, the soil of the 
^island being very suitable ; the ground-nut requiring 
‘ Deep, rich soil, of a grey colour. . . . Cal- 
careous soil suits it best.” 
The yield is very large. 
“ In a good year the crop is 100 bushels an acre. 
It is most profitable crop—few are more so. . 
The seeds contain 42 per cent, to -r>0 per cent, 
of oil.”—Haldane’s “Subtropical Cultivation. 
Professor Church’s analysis of the ground-nut 
(ArachinJti/pof/uj(i), shows that it contains of water, 
7'5 : albuminoids, 24-5; starch, 11-7 ; oO-O ; fibre, 
4*5 ; ash, 1*8. The oil which forms such a large 
propotion of the ground-nut is of a pale, clear, 
straw’ color ; it will not become rancid, and improves 
with age. It is known in commerce as nut oil, 
and is not only adulterated with, but is substituted 
for olive oil. It is valuable as a lubricant for 
delicate machinery. . . . The stems of the 
plant, after removal of the crop, form a most 
useful fodder which cattle are very fond of.”—••Tro- 
pical Agriculturist,” September, 18!)]. 
Ground-nuts are becoming an important and 
valuable export, and an increased demand has 
sprung up, Marseilles being the principal centre. ! 
I understood that the chief reason for the. small j 
present cultivation is that it is very exhausting; 
crop, certainly not more so than “ cassava.” and 
this objection does not apparently carry great 
weight with the native cultivators in the eastern 
districts of Southern India, from which the annual 
exports of ground-nuts are very large. 
And it would certainly be a great step in advance 
if the profits derived from the export of this product 
were to induce landowners to pay greater attention 
and care to the upkeep of their fields. 
The Imperial British East Africa Company, 
recognising the special importance of this cultiva- 
tion, has imported some seed from India, the 
Indian variety (being larger than the local kind. 

Oil Plants. 

Reference to ground-nuts brings me naturally 
tooil plants. Sesame or gingelly does not appear to 
be cultivated in the extensive manner carried on on 
the mainland, and altogether oil plant cultivations 
appear an entirely secondary matter. 
“ Mbono ” is a variety of oil plant yielding oil 
from the seed ; it is not largely cultivated, being 
chiefly grown in gardens and t he neighbourhood of 
houses. Its leaves, in conjunction with those of 
the “ banzi,” being also used medicinally for stop- 
ping the bleeding of cuts and wounds. 
The castor- oil plant is also found on the island. 

(To bt', rout/lined.) 

AFRICAN EX PL ORATION. 

M. Delcommune, wbo, with bis surviving com- 
panions, lias just arrived in Belgium, has issued a 
summary of bis discoveries. They complete those 
of Livingstone,, Cameron, and Stanley to the north, 
and of Reichardt, Capello, and Ivens to the south, 
comprising as they do the sources of the Congo 
and the course of its principal affluents. 
The Congo issues from a chain of mountains 
which extends from the shores of the southern 
extremity <>f the Tanganyika Lake to the extreme 
north of the Nynssa. It forms in those countries a 
river called the Tehambcsi, discovered in the course 

THE GAZETTE. 

| of the last century by a Portuguese traveller, 
: Lacerda, and forms the chief affluent of 
: Lake Banguelo The waters of the Banguelo 
| descend from a height of 1,100 metres into 
| Lake Mbero, 000 metres above the level of 
1 the sea, by means of the River Luapala, 300 kilo- 
! metres long, which is a succession of rapids. The 
j Moero constitutes a second reservoir, and sends 
j forth a stream 800 metres broad, which reaches the 
J village of Ankorro by a series of waterfalls. At 
1 this point it becomes navigable, receiving upon its 
j western bank the Lualaba, also navigable, whose 
: waters have been swollen in the’ * turn by the Lunga 
I and the Lovoi on the western, the Lufira on the 
eastern bank, and by the discharge of the Lakes 
; Kabele, Upemba, and Kassali. 
Between the 8th and 9th degrees of latitude, the 
Congo receives on the rigid the Lukuga, which 
draws off the overflow of Lake Tanganyika, as 
described by Cameron and Stanley. M. Delcommune 
confirms the assertions of these explorers, that the 
Lukuga is an unimportant waterway, as its course 
is obstructed, and only flows freely when the 
waters of the Tanganyika are exceptionally high. 
The Luapalu, on the . contrary, empties Lake 
Banguelo, which was formerly an inland sea, but is 
now bordered by vast swamps. When the Congo 
finally reaches Nyangwe it measures some 1,200 
metres from bank to bank. Lake Landji, though 
marked on the maps according to the reports of the 
Arabs, has no existence. 
M. Delcommune left Albertville, on the Tungan- 
i yika, on September 29, and arrived at Lusambo on 
: January 7, after M. Diiauis’s victory. He was 
I rejoined at Lusambo by the Bia expedition. The 
country which be traversed with bis caravan of 112 
! persons is good. He did not suffer from famine, as 
in the south, nor did any Arabs cross bis path. 
A telegram lias been received from Boma by the 
i Congo companies, reporting the death of M. Van 
den Kerckhoven, the leader of the Lado expedition. 
Letters from the son of Tippoo Tib confirm the 
report of the death of Emin Pasha, who is repre- 
sented to have been killed fighting, as well as all 
bis people.—The Timex. 

PREMIER CONCESSIONS OF 

MOZAMBIQUE. 

The first (statutory) general meeting of the 
Premier Concessions of Mozambique, Limi ted, 
was held recently at Broad Street House, Old 
Broad Street, E.C., under the presidency of Mr. 
David F. Carmichael. 
The Chairman, after expressing the satisfaction 
the Board felt at meeting the shareholders, stated 
that, by transfer from Mr. Parspnson, their vendor, 
they stood, in respect of the extensive grant made 
to him as concessionaires under the Mozambique 
Company, to whom, in July, 1892, under a charter 
of the King of Portugal, the administration of the 
provinces of Maniea and Sofala were formally 
handed over : a territory with an area greater than 
that of England and Wales, stretching from the 
River Zambesi, to the Sabi, with 200 miles of coast 
line, and possessing the splendid harbour—Pungwe 
Bay. It was certified by their Directors, under the 
band of the Mozambique Company's Secretary, tlia; 
the exceptionally favourable terms under which this 
concession wnsgi anted were solely due to certain valu- 
able services rendered to them by Mr. Parsonson, and 
that it was unlikely that any other such grant would 
be made on equally favourable terms. The area 
comprised some 380 square miles, in a country with 
an altitude of 2r>00 ft., extraordinary fertile, with a 
climate well suited to Europeans, and possessing every 
indication of mineral wealth. According "to the 
terms the farms and town lots were transferred free 
of charge : for two years from the registration of 
the Company no quit-rent was chargeable : after 
that id. per annum for every hectare, or every 
acres. On the whole 380 square miles, the 
|uit-rent would not exceed £400 a year. The 

  24th May 1893. 
property was held in perpetuity, with liberty to 
transfer any portion of it to any individual or 
corporation. The shareholders would understand 
that no political, administrative, or fiscal rights 
were transferred ; but it was not improbable that the 
Mozambique Company might, at first offer to their 
servants certain administrative duties, till the country 
was opened out. They should think it an honour, and 
find it an advantage, that they should be entrusted 
with such duties, as they already thought it an 
honour, and found it an advantage to them, that 
two of the Mozambique Company—the Marquis de 
Aiello and Mr. C. Algernon Moreing—had accepted 
| seats on their Board. Mr. Moreing’s experience 
I had been of the greatest assistance to them ; they 
| recognised him and their Portuguese colleague as 
the leaders of that liberal and progressive policy 
which was visible in the administration of the most 
important colony in Portuguese East Africa a 
policy which included the construction of railroads 
and other public works, the laying out of towns, 
the encouragement of a disciplined police force and 
competent tribunals. As to their financial position, 
the Directors deteminednot to go to allotment unless 
the public came in with £10,000 at least. This they 
obtained, and they had called up half of it. Up to 
the present their expenditure amounted to about 
£3000, the greater part of which was for the 
necessary equipment of their staff. In conclusion 
the Chairman dwelt at some length upon the 
personnel of their expedition. 
Captain Spring, in reply to a shareholder, said 
that he did not think they would clash with the 
Zambesi, Gaza, and Zambesi Sofala Companies, 
because all those Compaies, as far as he understood 
them, had not yet located their claims : they had an 
existence, but no localisation. 
Mr. Moreing then addressed the meeting. He 
said that the Premier Concessions were about to 
take up a large block of land in the very choicest 
part of the Mozambique Company’s territories, and 
that Company was anxious that the venture should 
prove successful, so as to be an example to others, 
who, lie hoped, would follow rapidly in their foot- 
steps, although not on such favourable terms. 
There was of course a certain risk incurred, as the 
country was in a part of Africa which was unknown 
to the English people. The Directors had organised 
an excellent expedition, and in fact had done every- 
thing possible to ensure a favourable issue. 
On the motion of Captain Hyner, a vote of thanks 
to the Chairman closed the proceedings.—South 
Africa. 

CENTRAL AFRICA. 

^ The accusations levelled by the Belgian Anti- 
Slavery Association and by Mr. Stanley to the 
effect that the Arabs on the Congo have been 
supplied with arms and ammunition from German 
East Africa, in contravention of the Brussels 
General Act, arc most categorically denied at Berlin. 
Thorough inquiries have been instituted, and the 
result lias been to prove that no breechloaders or 
any precise weapons are traded with in the German 
sphere of interest. A further refutation of these 
accusations is afforded by a letter from Dr. Stuhl- 
mann, the African explorer, who remarks that the 
guns supplied to the caravans are very second-rate 
muzzle-loaders, with short barrels/ with which 
accurate shooting is an impossibility. The powder 
is of like, quality, and the charge is made up of bits 
of iron shot and small leaden bullets, the latter of 
which never fit. the bore of the rifle. If the 
caravans could not buy anus of any sort the 
Government would have to provide military escorts, 
which is not to he thought of. 
Fresh and more detailed reports as to the deatli 
of Emm Pasha have been received in Berlin. It is 
affirmed that on the 13th of March last year Emin 
ana all his followers were murdered in the neighour- 
fioodot the River Ituribysomc Manvemas under 
the command of a Zanzibar Arab.—The Times 

24th May 1893 

THE GERMAN* IN AFRICA. 

The Anti-Slavery Committee at Berlin have just 
published their accounts for the last two years, to 
which is added an exhaustive report, of the 
undertakings set on foot in •German East Africa. 
Of the original capital of nearly 2,100,000 marks, 
obtained by a lottery and private subscriptions, 
more than a million and a half has been expended, 
of which the Wissmaim expedition absorbed (>60.000 
marks without accomplishing its primary object. 
The Wissmann steamer, which, it will be remember- 
ed. is to be left on Lake Nyassa, will be handed 
over to the Imperial administration. The German 
station, says the report, will be erected at the 
southern end of the lake, where the English 
Government has granted a suitable site,, and a 
fortified harbour is to be constructed later at the 
northern end' of the lake in German territory. 
With the small tug “Arrow”-.and other smaller 
vessels, a regular communication will he establish- 
ed between Lake Nyassa and the mouths of the 
Zambesi. When this is accomplished- it will he 
possible to make the first move against the strong- 
holds of the slave trade, which finds its chief 
support in the Yaos, who live in German territory, 
and against the continuation of which the English 
Government is still almost powerless. 

THE FRENCH IN AFRICA. 

General Dodds lias been summoned by telegraph 
to return to France, in order to confer with the 
Government as to the organization of Dahomey. 
General Dodds reports that the organization of the 
country is progressing slowly and surely, and 
commerce is reviving, hut at Abbmey active mili- 
tary measures are. still necessary. A Dahomeyan 
village has been destroyed, with a loss of three men 
on, the French, side, and Behahzin is finding diffi- 
culty in provisioning his men. 

News lias just reached Paris of the Maistre 
Mission, organized by the French Africa Committee 
; to follow up the work of Crampel and Dybowskn 
the Under-Secretary for the Colonies having 
received the following telegram - 

“Brass, Mouth of the Niger, March 25.—I have 
reached Akassa with Bmnache, Clozel, Behngle, 
Bonn el de Mnzieres, and Briquez perfect health. 
We have peacefully traversed the south of the 
Baghirini, thus connecting the Oubanghi with the 
route of Naehtigal. After Having arranged treaty 
on the Chari and on the Dogone, wc reached the 
Adamawa by an unexplored route after many 
difficulties and some battles, in which we had several 
wounded.—Maistre.” 
.1 his explorer set out with Ins five companions 
last J uly from a station established on the Kemo, 
one of the tributaries of the Qulmnghi, by Pybo- 
wski. They are thus safe and sound in the Lower 
Niger after an eight, months’ struggle through the 
region between Lake Tehed and the Congo basin 
M. Maistre and Ids companions have, therefore, 
explored some 300 miles of utterly unknown country 
taking the while observations on the hydrograph of 
the southern basin of the Tchad. The political results 
are considered equally important. ?>L Maistre lias 
retraversed a large portion of the route of the 
Mazion expedition, and in the opposite direction. 
A telegram dated Sama, March 24, announces 
the dispersal by Colonel Combes of the hands of 
Samory. 
A later telegram from General Dodds states that 
Beljanzin'is in a state of great physical and moral 
collapse, and that three warlike chiefs alone prevent 
him from surrendering. Smallpox is said to be 
ravaging Ids army. 

THE GAZETTE. 

IN H. B. M. CONSULAR COURT. 

Zanzibar, May 23rd, 1893 

lx lie Tharia Tor an. 

In pursuance of an order made on the 22hd 
day of May 1893, Mr. H. W. de Sausmarez 
has been appointed provisionally to pass valid 
receipts for moneys received by him and due 
to the said Estate. All receipts must be signed 
by him, and without his signature no receipt 
after this date will be recognized. 

W. B. CRACKNALL, 

Judge, 

H. M. Consular Court. 

MViU tfk-lSrt ‘Hl'HrtHt. 
ciio ufcsS} nSic-u ^ 
5i iflo Slat, .s'-nct*!. £1 smc-A HU-u 
cHl Hlic-wi Hlijli £ atsili cMl 
c-oHl JtH'Wi =*Hmi >3. 

mi&Su gm* clSii'fl yiQ 
SHI*/ rtlflR HafWl ‘’it'dMUl CMlrt Hl3 
GHH *?l cRl'll H cil cW\ Ml 

(iRl ilRHlHi shk^I ^41. 

wVlK rti° }3>{l >i 
IN H.B.M.: CONSULAR COURT AT 

ZANZIBAR. 

PEOBATjE AND ADMUJISTKATION. 

Cause No. 7 of 1893. 

Notice of issue Letters of administration 
in the estate of Ewannou Cambourpmite, 
Greek, deceased. 

Pursuant to an order of IT. M. Consular 
Court at Zanzibar granting Letters of admini. 
stration in the estate of the late Ewannou Cam- 
bouromite, Greek, deceased, wbo died at Zanzi- 
bar on the 22nd day of May 1893 all creditors 
and others having claims upon the estate of 
the above-named deceased are required to send 
in writing the particulars of their debts, claims, 
or demands, to Bamanji Dhunjibhoy Tahiti, 
administrator appointed within 0 months 
from the date herof, after which date the 
said Administrator will proceed to administer 
the assets, having regard only to the claims 
of which he shall then have received notice, 
and no claim sent in subsequently will be 
recognized, and all persons indebted to or 
bolding any securities or property belonging 
to the said estate are also hereby requested to 
pay without delay the amount owing by them 
or deliver the said securities or property to 
the said Administrator, whose receipt alone is 
valid for the same. 

W. B. CRACKNALL, 

. Judge, 
II. B. M. Consular Court. 

Zanzibar, 23rd May 1893. 

SALE BY TENDER. 

9 

For sale by Tender those two Steam Boat-s 
known as the “Con ’ and “Quest” now lying 
at anchor off Messrs. Smith Mackenzie & 
Co.’s Stores. 

These boats are 31 feet in length and are 
believed to be in good and sound condition; in 
addition to which the “Quest” is copper 
bottomed and therefore specially adapted for 
service in Zanzibar waters. 

Full particulars may be ascertained on 

application on board H.M.S. “Philomel”. 

Tenders to be addressed to the Senior Naval 
Officer I on board II.M.S. “Philomel” and to 
be delivered not later than Thursday next 
the 1st June. 

The Senior Naval Officer does not bind 

himself to accept the Ingest or any Tender. 

Signed on board Her Majesty’s Ship 

“Philomel” this 23 day of May 1893. 
CHARLES CAMPBELL, 

Captain and Senior Officer, 

East Coast of Africa. 

THE NEW ORIENTAL BANK 

CORPORATION LIMITED ix liquidation; 
A Second dividend of ten per cent. (10 * / 0 j 
has been declared and will be payable on the 
5th June 1893 on all claims lodged at this 
office, and which shall have been duly admit- 
ted by the Liquidator. 

Deposit receipts, | complete sets of exchange 
of drafts, and all vouchers representing claims 
must be presented prior to the payment of 
the dividend. 

L. C. MASFEN, 

Attorney for the Liquidator. 

BEK ANNTMACHUN G. 

Knter No. 1 desGjescllschafts registers dieses 
Kqnsulates jst eingetragen worden die Kom- 
manditg-esSchaft AY. Richter & Co. 

Personlich hafteiider Gesellschafter ist der 

Kaufmann Willy Richter aus Hamburg. 

Die Gesellschaft hat ihre Hauptniederias- 
sung in HainburguiidZweigmederlassimgenin 
Zanzibar und Daressalam. Die Zw’eignieder- 
lassung in Zanzibar besteht aus einer Apotbeke 
mid eincm kaufmaennischen Import-und 
Expoi'tgesckaeft, deren Geschaefte getrennt 
gefuebrt werden. 

Prokurist der Gesellschaft fuer den Betrieb 
der Apotbeke ist der Apotheker Walter 
Laeucn, fixer den ubrigen Theil der hiesigen 
Zweigniederlassung der Kaufmann Paul 
De-vers, beide hierselbst wolmhaft. 

Beide Prokuren sind unterNo.l und 2 des 
Prokurenregistcrs des unterzieebneten Kon- 
sulates eingetragen. 

Zanzibar, den 19, Mai 1893. 

Der Kaiserlich Deutsche Konsul 

ANTON. 

TTT 

'-’I!.'' :*r 

TITiriTAZliTTE: 

24tli May 1893“ 

IMPORTS AND EXPORTS 

COMPILED FROM THE CUSTOM HOUSE STATISTICS. 

JANUARY 1893. 

IMPORTS. 

Amber 
Animals 
Ba^s and Candahs 
Beads 
Building Materials 
Chillies 
Cloves 
Clove Stems 
Coal 
Cocoanuts 
Coins 
Coir and Thread 
Copra and Chikichiki 
Cotton 
Crockery and Glassware ... 
Dates 
Dry Kish and Shark Kins . 
Firewood 
Flour 
Ghee 
Grain 
Grocery 
Ground-nuts 
Gum Copal 
Guns and Ammunition ... 
Hardware 
Hides 
Hippo Teeth 
I vory 
Mineral Waters 
Miscellaneous 
Opium 
O rebel la Weeds 
Paint, Oil & Turpentine ... 
Piece goods 
Khino Horns 
Rubber ... 
• Salt Shells and Cowries 
Sem Sem 
•Spirits ...' 
Tobacco and Cigars 
Tortoise Shells 
Vegetables 
Wax- 
Wine 
-Wire 
Wooden Works 

Europe. 

America. 

Pkges.f Rs. 

Pkges.i Re. 

2 2(10 
ir»! 2871 
180 

48 

21 <5 r»j:p 

2; 

771 2:{!) 

14 1070 
242 127,7 

171 

125 
1525 

fiOj S- 
111 | (K)2 

121 
232 

3AS1 

19181 
7 11*12 
•183 43850 
■'OOSj 524890 

African Ports 

& 

Islands 

Total. 

Asia—Aden, 
Bombay, 
Muscat ike. 
Rs. 
900 
1217 
7800 
880 

Pkges. 
8 
88 
94 
15 

1318 
2799 
10859 
129 
750 
8884 
1022 

234 
2403 
908* 
8344 
154_ 
28040 
7039 
3137 

10520 
2102 
300 
910 
150430 
3100 
3417 
8404 
1136 
2707 700 
519 

1244 
289 
134 
130 
22348 
505 
140851 
81 
290 
0377 
41 
122 
’”28 
10 
279 
11198 
290* 
938 
201 
1077 
29 
870 

Rs. 
900 
17737 
10102 
3751 
4800 
910 
150430 
3160 
77120 
3417 
8404 
4995 
27071 
1854 
5359 
9000 
8910 
3301 
0778 
32590 
104420 
*52588 
30015 
11 
10752 
19713 
4730 
1779 
131807 
1307 
97147 
0100 
11450 
1310 
909011 
1732 
15202 
825 
1314 
21394 
3751 
29848 
20334 
*5425 
175 
198*57 
11*52 
1078 
59907 
311451 4187491200110* 525880 242318 1487319 

Pkges.! 
6 
1312 
385; 
301 
1527| 
iso; 
22348 
5057: 
140851I 
81, 
-337j 
03771 
1480 
2799; 
1008 
35 
1029 
19804 
4099 
938 
4: 
1220 
1328 
29 
870 
59 
3328 
io! 
050: 
128 
1478 
105 
91 
11001 
72! 
3013 
138 
324 
54 
2533 
034. 
4001; 

,3301 
100 
0550 
2798 
7294 
1 
3001 
28( 
447 
177 
13180 
4074 

173 
15202 
1314 
21394 
170 
3280 
20144 
554 
13 
538 
2204 

50 
17821 
0100 
27 
4 
1955 (70 

3013 
1 
73 
52 
500 
4 
34 

370 
10 
211 88 
99: 

823 
19* 
1081 
40 

50 
080_ 
204 

708 
251 

1180 

ANALYSIS OF IMPORTS FROM DIFFERENT COUNTRIES. 

I London 
Cardiff 
.Ha;nburg 
Amsterdam 
Antwerp 
Gothenburg 
Hotterdam 
Marseilles 
Venice 
Naples 
Trieste 
Aden 

Pkges. 
• 1284 
2 
1118 
36 
158 
473 
1,991 
11 
177 
6 
135 

Valued at 

Rs. 
97,942 
88,320 
156,357 
8,050 
2,000 
32.200 
862 
135,016 
1.341 
1.342 
1,460 
4,08.2 

Muculla 
Muscat 
Cutck 
Bombay 
Port Said 
Suez 
I. B. E.  •V. Go’s Ports 
7,352 
German Coast of E. Afriea83,Vj90 
H. H. Tbe Sultan of Zanzibar’s 
Dominions 114,107 
•South 

Pkges. 
7,463 
7,748 
1,426 
14,373 

Valued at 
Rs. 
10,078 
16,364 
3,187 
383,038 
290 
3,600 
67,863 
160,047' 
245,217 
48,663 
242,318 1,467,319 

STEAMER FOR MAURITIUS. 

U.s. “CHILKA” 

( OF THE B. 1. S. N. CO., LD. ) 

Left Bombay yesterday 23rd 
inst. for Zanzibar and will leave 
 _,bereimmediately onarrivalfor 
Mauritius. All enquiries re cargo and passen- 
gers must be addressed to tbe Charterer 

ESSA THAYER 
N. B.—Exceptional opportunities are 

offered for taking cargo at cheap rates. 

Mil* MM* 

SitfUl Mlcl *£*1* . 
"dUUi iAm d'flsnw yo 
41 “ ^c-ui ” atKHrtl ■Hiy41, 
 ^ dl° *341 4 qi} $U$Ml li'dysil 
SrMS d 3H-H aHiqSfl ■>qiei fe'si 

«1?1 el '»t?t ^ *ll<H aiiiiqql ^iq 

um NiydwH smsi e/3 riSUvH 41=1 q 
ifl ildRd dqi^fl -lldl nll'HHd i^l 4 
^ii'd «tqi. 

4'Hi 'Hid *Rtdt Sfndi 6. 

<HlO jAu 

FOR RENT. 

A well ventilated and dry godown. For 

particulars, apply to 

ARNOLD, CHENEY & CO. 

Mil &. 

<4didi *niqr<iq4l 3=41 =lisqijj dm =15 
Sis 5is =ll4l§d Mil =6miq' q'3 4l=ld Mil 
4131 at-0 3»3. 

|lo. 

M ^ * MM*. 

■^<>1? »idM sniRdiMi a»uqS $ 1(| 3j| 
dl^Hd i'H'H4ldl dlH**! i/=HHl? xmd aRg 
41 jMd S/di andRl? yHi 
MRiqrti ^ H4i m 
VR3 dlM Sii/St «q4 Mi !s?q| d^l 
a>u SHixm Wdi « l4l^l JRMU dll) 
3lRiai q^ditoft 463 q^di sqq 
di *di hni R Midid ^ 

H Mli SliT xlci SlXHRSR d«n. 
«10 iStietlsHd &U«t4l 

«io "SliECHset |<4<H*rn *U. 

U/MIRH die Ifedl M *4 

EXTENSIVE GODOWX 

TO BE LET. 

CLOSE TO SIR THARLV TOPUNS 
Apply for inspection and further particulars to 
II., care of “ The Gazette” Office, 

HOUSE. ). 

Zanzibar.; 

<HlU aHlddMlvll S. 

v dd< s4i<qi 4iM«wi r<41 NlwiMi sqiq^l Sis 
=6/1 q=HG wil =4F«i4l»'. q$s <l=ia =ii2 
=i3i =4lSl=THi '>il 4 =1=41=1 CF'H'f sqqqi yug. 

®frc 6A3Ctt 

jFOR ZAXZIIt.V;iv> -A.3ST33 E.AST AFRICA. 

Vol. 2—No. 70 

31st MAY, 1893. 

FOR ZANZIBAR AND EAST AFRICA. 

Zanzibar, 31st May, 1893. 

REUTER’STELEGRamS- 
London, S5th May 1SDS 

Lord Salisbury whilst at Lome, on his way 
to Belfast, met with a most enthusiastic reception 
On reaching Bolfast, the crowd drew the carriage 
through the gaily decorated streets. 
It has been virtually settled that Dinizulu will be 
reinstated merely as chief of his own tribe : Zebo- 
!m and the others will be reinstated under a British 
Governor. Mr. S. C. Buxton, in the House of 
Commons, said that it. was textnally admit 
tod that Dimizuhi and the other chiefs would 
have to return before very long, but the ques- 
tion was, when, and under what conditions 
Tiie Government would deal with the question at 
the earliest possible moment in a way, which! it was 
hoped, would prove satisfactory to ail interested in 
Zul aland. 
Lord Salisbury, addressing five thousand per- 
sons at Belfast, made an abstract of the amend- 
ments in favour of the veto of the Crown, and the 
Supremacy of the English Parliament, by which 
abstract, the Speaker showed they were no protec- 
tion against Government by nominees of Bishop 
. M a sh and Mr. Tim Healy. Lord Salisbury add- 
ed that Ulster was certain to win the day, if it 
holds out : lie counselled moderation and ab-fen 
lion from riotous acts. 
At a meeting of the National League, yesterday, 
Mr limothy Harrington said lie believed Home 
hide would not be passed for many sessions 

,,,, „ . 27th Mm, IMS. 
Hie Premiers of Victoria, New South Wales and 
South Australia, will meet at Melbourne, to-dav 
! f? confer on the financial situation : it is expected 
they will arrange some kind of federal action. 
Seventeen States, including the principal Euro- 
pean States, will withdraw their exliibits from com- 
petition at the Chiengo Exhibition, unless Juries 
award tbe prizes, instead of single Judges. 
lu reply to a cablegram from the Cape Govuni- 
ment offering their support by investing in New 
j-outh Wales ami V ictorum Stocks, the Agents in 
London of these Colonies, have thanked the Cape 
Government for their sympathy but have declined 
a? tue market is improving. 
Seventeen States, including Great Britain, have 
finally Withdrawn their cxliibits from the compel i- 
'"i* at Chicago ; many Americans will follow. 
m, -n 29th Hay 189S. 
A he Emperor of Austria, on receiving delegn- 
???’ „ntu t,lat the most cordial relations with 
ifici_ f owers, still continue, and tiie conditions, 
inonng peace, are unimpaired: nevertheless, a 

progressive increase of the defensive power of 
Austria is absolutely necessary. 
The Westminster Gazette gives its opinion that 
the Gape Gojemment’s offer to Australia, is a 
proof of Colonial solidarity, and the faitli of the 
Colomes m their own, and each others future. 
Ihe Conference of Australian Premiers recom- 
mends uniform banking legislation in all the Austra- 
han Colonies, and to compel the Banks to issue 
an hold Colonial Bonds, or coin, against their 
note issues, which the Governments guarantee. 

ONE ANNA 

AH RIA HHl'Gfbfl =414 6 44 (hjQ ih'yH utijl 

4liiSii uiuu RIA'HKI quqi 

dlo 3ova ^ tilts' 

wa s. - 
^ 4j3qufli siiTi ylgs AHv,q-t H 
*C SH4 WlHdi phi'll jjiutt emi iiuuusR hia a 
Ri UiGSR'U WSKiTU 44=il trtl 

. . 30 th May 189 S. 
A death from Asiatic cholera has occurred in 
Hamburg. 
Negotiations are in course of progress, between 
the Mozambique and British South Africa Com- 
panies, for the mutual development of their 
an(1 tl,c ultimate solution of the frontier 
difficulty. 
® correspondent at Rangoon states that 
gold held, 900 square miles in extent has been 
discovered at Wuntho and a favorable official 
report made on it. 

EAST AFRICAN NEWS. 

LOCAL NEWS. 

The M. M. s.s. “Amazone” arrived yesterday 
evening from Aden with European mails un 
to the 12thinst: tins steamer brings three week’s 
Europe: tMr. F.H.O. Wilson, and 
Jlr. H imams, and Mi-. Drienson were passen- 
gers by her. 

3 d * rll rtl *. 

. -d -'t, qio tqHl if liiz. 
riifl itqnu 6 i “am ij, 
riHl fliq^Hl RiSi 4Wq mlHi 1^ 
TO. JlTt-q 141 qqpqpai 
C’d ilf'd Rial 4^41 n-ouSi iHH itHHi ^JRqti. 
Mlo 5i^i. <fl. ff/ittiqa" 1 it 
4I3& WlM tltsitl waflsn Him 4WI, -in , 
[To, h 
acq SHICIJJ- §, Hlit 4 iHlx HU Y41 
4i*ft fl WHICH 5. ^asiUni auiq' hc-w 
a WdUl HCi 7441 <14 wtitt Si yqt 
Cd-u SfiTli tHHcfl SulHCi 4t?l. 
41=141 =Ai WURRl =1'- Mb Hto cflJlifl 
Sdlwijd taa * §H3h uflst 4411 HHl4 it!S u 
lill Ht?U Sllldl. 

Wednesday last being the seventy-fourth 
anniversary of Queen Victoria’s birtkduy 
Tu.i v1'™1. as a sL'iot holiday in town.’ 
Alf_ the ships m harbour were decorated, and 
Union Jacks were displayed at many points 
m the town, together with the red flag 0f 
H. H. the Sultan. 0 
At _9. 30. a. in. H. H. Sayyid Hamcd bin 
Thwain paid a visit to Mr. Rennell Redd 
H. Al. Diplomatic Agent, at the British 
Agency : preceded by his Persian bodyguard 
and attended by all the leading Avails of bis- 
Lourt, the Sultan passed through lines of 
native troops to the gateway of the Agency 
which with its approaches was handsomel'v 
dccoratcd with flags and palm leaves. A 
’iTy « of , „Irono1, Itmded from 
Jl. Al. S. 1 hilomel was drawn up here 
Mr. RenncU Rodd, with whom were Captain 
ctH WsHl 4 iiC:3. 
Campbell Senior Naval Officer, General 
^dhSf HCdW =h4 'OhilWiai yyi<l 
Lloyd Mathews, C.M.G., Prime Minister of 
’waa rtHd =itm4l 'iSl SHtHHldl ^H^fl WWI 
the Zanzibar Government, Mr. 'SY. B. Crack- 
< did Wldi(4 wiqtsfl 5fUfl lidl, Hqi yyqi 
nail Jiulge in H.AI. Consular Court, Mr. C 
disu fHrii Wdil^ai ^c-t4ic= hS SHiUJuril 74 
W stnckland, Receiver of Revenue, General 
HGUitl dl H12155, iipiji 14,4^ h^- M 
Hatch, CommandingH.H. TroopsDr. Charles 
worth and other members of the Consular 
" |'4Ud f. ^iTh MistTudi .mmwibd'SrfoSrt 
hldldl diet HiSl iS an c-nSi a a»4 amii. a, Li o..u  • . “.el'lct's> receiv 
^ ^ n ^ 8 ^ P thTTultan Th^vStT? I 
Rfliri 4t_3I 4lctHl RICH Hl5i W=il Ckl? about half an hour and at its moll * laS
t,°d 
i
5. Si =.F/HHl«u54ldl an liffi J ai(JSi 
«. =H q„l? 74 *0 i mo, Sultan returned to the PaC TlRo 
‘4.dl rtHiy @HPfl hiji ^ 41^4 clMiy 4^1 
Hi SHPU T'UHHHl 4[5^ iLAal. 

dl° 4 IC&3. 
=414 H?isii 5iqi (Hamii! 

^ItflS 5 yqsn fUWi<4fl=Jtq iq-S! HiJ Sl4 

SiA Diinqi =J(4 

MS^pIT ^ 1101101 * from TL 
3I.S Philomel. _ During flic morning tiie 
MreiT^,0nSRllp ??1,1TUtfivCH c;,Ucd upon 
Mi. Reiinoll Rodd, who also received visits 
Irom the representatives of the mercantile 
ni? •? Lul'8'e deputations from 
Uie British Indian community, rei)resentative 

